Washington (CNN)From the beginning, everyone underestimated Donald Trump. He pulled off a stunning victory after the most unprecedented of presidential campaigns.

Trump channeled the fury of average Americans against Washington. He tapped into their anxiety about the present and the fear of the future. He spoke to the pain they felt about working hard and getting left behind.
And in doing so, he eviscerated every convention about politics.
The pundits thought Trump's reality show antics, his vulgar rhetoric, speeches filled with falsehoods and insults thrown at almost every sector of American society -- Latinos, African Americans, war heroes, women and Muslims -- would disqualify him from the presidency.
It didn't.
Instead Trump marshaled a movement -- a modern day uprising of forgotten Americans, reminiscent of Richard Nixon's "silent majority" of the late 1960s.
How Clinton lost
He argued that Americans were hungering for change and that he alone could "drain the swamp" by sweeping away corruption in Washington.
Changing the map
Trump said he would change the complexion of the electoral map -- putting Democratic states in the decaying industrial Midwest into the Republican column with his anti-trade rhetoric. He did.
He said he could humble the most talented Republican field in a generation: He did.
He said he could teach Republicans to beat their nemesis -- the Clintons. He did.
He said the polls were wrong and that he would pull off a surprise that would dwarf the shocking poll-defying Brexit vote in the United Kingdom to leave the European Union. And he was right.
Trump's rewriting of the rules of politics could usher in a period of global turmoil and uncertainty, as US allies, foreign markets and the Americans who were revolted by his behavior during the campaign look to the future with deep anxiety.
How politicians, pollsters and media missed Trump's groundswell
The question now, is when he becomes the most powerful man in the world in January, whether Trump will try to rewrite the rules and conventions of American government and the international system, just as fundamentally as he rewrote the rules of American presidential elections.
Trump pledged unity during a victory speech in the early morning hours Wednesday.
"I say it is time for us to come together as one united people," he said. "I pledge to every citizen of our land that I will be president for all Americans."
Still, Trump pulled off one of the most staggering upsets in the history of Western democracy.
As recently as a month ago, pundits were still contemplating the possibility of a Hillary Clinton landslide. But the polls began to tighten, returning the race to a more accurate reflection of a deeply polarized country.
Then came uncertainty as FBI Director James Comey cast a new cloud of suspicion over Clinton's campaign, reopening a review of emails tied to her server.
Clinton allies said the damage was undeniable -- their hope of swaying those final persuadable Republican women and independents -- suddenly looked bleaker.
As late as this weekend, the polls suggested Trump would have to run a near perfect race and chart a very narrow path to the White House, essentially pulling an inside straight.
