1 9\/11 billboard draws flak from Florida Democrats , GOP - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- A Florida man is using billboards with an image of the burning World Trade Center to encourage votes for a Republican presidential candidate , drawing criticism for politicizing the 9\/11 attacks .

3 ` Please Do n't Vote for a Democrat ' reads the type over the picture of the twin towers after hijacked airliners hit them on September , 11 , 2001 .

1 Mike Meehan , a St. Cloud , Florida , businessman who paid to post the billboards in the Orlando area , said former President Clinton should have put a stop to Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda before 9\/11 .
3 He said a Republican president would have done so .

3 ` I believe 9\/11 could have been prevented if we 'd had a Republican president at the time , ' Meehan said Wednesday on CNN 's ` American Morning . '

1 But Democrats and Republicans are saying Meehan should n't be using a 9\/11 image to make a political point .

2 ` This is a blatant exploitation of that terrible tragedy for political and , perhaps even worse , personal gain , ' Bill Robinson , the Orange County , Florida , Democratic Party chairman told CNN affiliate WFTV-TV in Orlando .

2 The local Republican Party called the billboard ` inappropriate , ' according to WFTV .

3 ` There are many ways to convey the importance of national security in this election without going to extremes , and we encourage a constructive dialogue , ' the Florida Republican Party said in a statement Tuesday .

1 According to Meehan , President Bush has done ` an excellent job ... going after these terrorists . '
3 Watch Meehan 's take on terrorism and the election . 

2 ` You got to remember all the ... people that George Bush did catch and how much success he did have .
3 And we have n't had an attack on this soil since 9\/11 , ' Meehan said .

2 ` Unlike Bill Clinton , who actually had bin Laden right in his hand and through the CIA and other high officials decide to get him go , ' Meehan said .

3 In a 2006 interview with ` Fox News Sunday , ' Clinton said he authorized the killing of bin Laden in 2000 after the attack on the Navy warship USS Cole in Yemen , but the order was never carried out because U.S. intelligence and law enforcement agencies refused to certify that bin Laden was behind the Cole attack .

3 ` I got closer to killing him than anybody has gotten since , ' Clinton said in the 2006 interview .

3 Meehan also is using the billboard to promote his Web site , the republicansong.com , where he 's trying to sell copies of his song , ` Please Do n't Vote for a Democrat . '

3 The song goes beyond the national security issue , ripping Democrats on taxation and energy issues , too .

3 ` They want to take the money from the hard workin ' man , and give it to the lazy folks that do n't give a damn , ' Meehan sings .

3 Another verse takes on the oil issue .

3 ` We 're not fightin ' for oil , we got plenty if we drill it , ' he sings .

3 The song 's not a moneymaker , he said , just an effort to recoup some of what he 's invested in the billboards .

3 A copy of the song on CD cost $ 5 on the Web site , and the site points out that Meehan can be hired to perform at a ` concert , party , meeting or event . '

3 ` I 'm willing to pay the cost for the fact that our soldiers that have died protecting this country have paid a heck of a lot more than what these billboards cost , ' Meehan told ` American Morning . '

3 Florida resident Mary Anderson told WFTV she does n't see politics when she 's looking at the billboard .

3 ` Just looking at it , I 'm not thinking about Democrat or Republican , I 'm thinking about the twin towers and all the people killed , ' she told WFTV .
