3 Review : Raw emotion fuels new Morissette album - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- Entertainment Weekly -RRB- -- Once upon a time -- oh , let 's just call it North America in the mid - '90s , shall we ?
3 -- Weezer and Alanis Morissette were an inescapable part of the cultural landscape , churning out buoyant rock-radio hits -LRB- Weezer -RRB- , wordy , eccentric anthems -LRB- Alanis -RRB- , and MTV-friendly videos -LRB- both -RRB- with impressive consistency .

3 Each act 's follow-ups , however , have failed to yield quite the success of their initial impact .
3 So how , in the face of a never-ending rush of fresh industry blood , does an already established act stay relevant ?

2 For Morissette , the answer on new CD ` Flavors of Entanglement ' seems to lie , for better or worse , in going through a really , really bad breakup .

2 The same kind of passion that fueled the 15-million-selling '95 smash ` Jagged Little Pill ' -LRB- was there ever a woman more excellently scorned than the Alanis who excoriated her lover on ` You Oughta Know ' ? -RRB-
1 is all over ` Entanglement ' -- thanks to a well-publicized split with actor fiance Ryan Reynolds .

3 Granted , at 34 , she still writes too often in the histrionic , no-one-has-ever-felt-what-I-feel style of a feverishly journaling liberal-arts major .

1 Even so , the rawness of her hurt adds heft to eff-you screeds like the thunderous ` Versions of Violence , ' and she 's found an able partner in producer and co-writer Guy Sigsworth , a onetime Bj rk collaborator .

3 His dense , swirling compositions seem to push Morissette 's boundaries , conjuring her inner Princess of Darkness on the glitchy , gothy ` Straitjacket ' and exploring Far Eastern exotica on the tabla-tinged opener ` Citizen of the Planet . '

1 But her most affecting moment may be the most stripped down .
2 A barely-there piano is all the accompaniment needed on the broken , fragile ballad ` Not as We , ' on which her voice cracks heartbreakingly over the lines ` From scratch begin again , but this time , I as I\/And not as we . '

2 Somehow , a devastating personal experience has galvanized her songwriting in a way that domestic bliss , as showcased on 2004 's disappointing ` So-Called Chaos , ' could not .

3 EW Grade : B +
