2 Apple fans mark 25 years of Mac devotion - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Long before fish swam in Macquariums , hipsters got Apple logo tattoos and thousands camped out for days to get into computer store openings , there was a machine .

1 Saturday marks the 25th anniversary of the original Macintosh , the first personal computer to draw masses , introduce the mouse and incorporate a graphical user interface , relying on images instead of text .

1 The Apple Inc. watershed product entered American consciousness amid fanfare , with a $ 1.5 million commercial , made by Ridley Scott , wowing audiences during Super Bowl XVIII .
3 The piece 's title , ' 1984 , ' invoked author George Orwell 's message and stood as a warning against conformity .

3 Two days after the ad ran , the Macintosh became available and life , as people knew it , changed .
3 No longer were computers viewed as toys with which to play primitive games or as untouchable tools reserved for degreed engineers .
3 We began to think different .

3 ` The Macintosh demonstrated that it was possible and profitable to create a machine to be used by millions and millions of people , ' said Alex Soojung-Kim Pang , research director for the Institute for the Future , a Palo Alto , California , think tank , and chief force behind ` Making the Macintosh : Technology and Culture in Silicon Valley , ' an online historical exhibit .
3 ` The gold standard now for personal electronics is , ` Is it easy enough for my grandmother to use it ? '
3 People on the Macintosh project were the first people to talk about a product in that way . '

3 Pang , 44 , remembered being ` mesmerized ' by the computer when he first saw it up close in his college bookstore .
3 He was n't alone .
3 Read about how iReporters are preserving Mac history 

3 For graphic designers like Zo Korstvedt , now a Los Angeles creative director , the evolving Mac , with each added feature , was ripe with ah-ha moments .

3 To tinker with a piece , play with the text , ` to visualize on your computer was just insane , ' she said .
3 ` My colleagues and I wonder how we did it -LRB- their jobs -RRB- before . '

3 No wonder , then , that when Korstvedt , 44 , married her first husband in 1989 , she used half of their wedding money to buy her first home computer : a Mac SE\/30 , for which she forked over extra bucks for an upgrade to a whopping 8 megabytes of RAM .
3 Nothing compared to the 12 gigs she now has .
3 ` I was styling , ' she said with a laugh .

3 Jeremy Mehrle , 30 , of the St. Louis , Missouri , area is too young to know a world without Macs .
3 This MacAddict began hoarding and tinkering with tossed-out computers , and then he discovered eBay .
3 Today , the motion graphics designer 's 1,400 square-foot basement is a museum to Apple computers , all-white and in gallery-style with about 80 fully-functioning machines on display .

3 ` Some people think it 's really cool .
3 ... Others say ` It 's Jeremy 's thing , it 's a little weird , whatever , '' he said .
3 ` I think if I had stacks everywhere , and you could n't move in my house , people would be worried . '

3 What 's Mehrle 's hobby , however , became a career for Dan Foust , 38 , of Bloomington , Illinois .
3 ` Danapplemacman , ' as he 's known on eBay , makes a living out of buying , and when necessary resuscitating , these computers before hawking them online to customers\/collectors in places as far-flung as Italy and Australia .

3 So what would people pay for an original Macintosh ?

3 ` A complete boxed system ? , ' he said .
3 ` I ca n't put a price on that . '

3 The extremes to which people have gone in their love and loyalty for Apple -LRB- and specifically Macs -RRB- knows no bounds .
3 Perhaps no one knows this better than Leander Kahney , news editor at Wired.com and author of Cult of Mac , as well as the more recently published Inside Steve 's Brain .

3 That would be Apple co-founder Steve Jobs ' brain , of course .
1 From his phone in a San Francisco coffee shop , Kahney told tales of people allotting their limited vacation time to Macworld conferences , a man who has traveled to 40 Apple store openings and those who shaved Apple logos into their heads .
1 As for the Apple tattoos , those , at first , really bothered him .

3 ` I 'm a bit of a leftie , ' he said .
3 The idea of ` corporate worship ' did n't initially sit well with him -- although he 's not afraid to admit his own obsession .
3 ` It 's a very deep relationship people have with their computers .
3 ... If the computer 's not working , it 's more important than the car breaking down . '

3 Speaking of worship , Israeli filmmakers Ron and Kobi Shely created ` MacHEADS : The Movie , ' a 50-minute documentary that 'll be available next week on Amazon 's video on demand service and , soon after , on iTunes .
2 The film includes footage from The Church of Mac in Los Angeles , where a preacher and congregants gathered to glorify the computer at a service that ended with , ` Praise Steve . '

3 ` Although we read a lot about the -LRB- Mac -RRB- phenomenon , ' Ron Shely said by phone from Tel Aviv of the two-year film project , ` we did n't realize how big this social movement really is . '

3 And that , beyond the products , is what has been so powerful about the Mac brand , said Peter Friess , president of The Tech Museum of Innovation in San Jose , California .
3 iReport.com : Got your own Mac Museum ?
3 Show us !

2 Steve Jobs ` really has changed the world , ' Friess said .
3 ` You hardly find people who changed cultures .
3 He changed culture . '

3 Decades before Jobs ' health became a topic of discussion , Friess was lucky enough to meet the man .
3 At the time , German-born Friess was a lowly watchmaker , repairing clocks in the basement of Munich 's Deutsches Museum , the largest science and technology museum in the world .

3 The year was 1984 , and Friess thought a Macintosh might come in handy , so he called Apple Germany to see if he might be able to get one .
3 The answer , as he recalled it , '' You 're very lucky .
3 Steve Jobs is in town .
3 We 'll come over and give you one . ''

3 Ever since , he 's been amazed and exceedingly intrigued by every new computer .
3 ` My wife goes crazy , ' Friess , 49 , admitted .
3 ` Every Apple computer I buy , the first thing I do is take it apart , just to see what 's inside . '

3 For Gary Allen , 61 , of Berkeley , California , his interest is less inside than it is outside the company 's stores .
3 He runs ifoAppleStore.com , the first three letters taken from his police dispatch days , meaning ` in front of . '

3 The site 's genesis dates back to 2001 when Apple store No. 9 opened , in Palo Alto , and he and his son went early .
3 Way early -- as in the night before .
2 The crowds , and natural community , grew on Allen , who began seeing new-found friends at other openings .
3 They were like groupies chasing a band .

3 So he started a Web site , to help fans keep in touch , and soon other Apple enthusiasts began writing from across the globe , sharing tips about new stores , as well as testimonies and photos .
3 The site , he said , averages about 4 million visitors a month .

3 Allen , who guessed he 's been to 22 store openings so far , once stood in the rain for days in Tokyo so he could snag the first spot in line .
3 He 's seen old friends at openings in Germany and Italy .
3 Last summer , he and his now 21-year-old son experienced what he called ` the perfect storm , ' hitting Boston , Beijing and Sydney .
3 Next stop : Paris .

2 He may not speak the same language as the thousands who surround him in these various cities , but that does n't much matter when people speak the same language of computer love .

3 ` Apple enthusiasts , it turns out , ' Allen said , ` are the same wherever you go . '
