3 Barnstorming the San Diego coastline - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- Coastal Living -RRB- -- Goggles -- check .
3 Helmet -- check .
3 Headset -- check .
3 ` Bronco , I 'm ready for takeoff . '
3 The engine rumbles , the propeller spins , and the faint smell of fuel rises around me .

3 I 'm not piloting this open-cockpit biplane ; that honor goes to Chuck ` Bronco ' Buckley , a retired Navy commander .
3 I 'm just along for the ride -- an unforgettable adrenaline rush -- over the San Diego coastline .

3 Our carefully restored aircraft , a 1920s Travel Air biplane , thrills passengers with a flight back in time .
1 I 'm joyriding with Barnstorming Adventures , a Carlsbad , California , tour company operating from the Palomar Airport .
3 They do n't provide simply nostalgic trips , I 'm soon to learn .
3 More like near-spiritual experiences .

3 Our shiny , red machine zigzags across the airfield and finally makes a run down the strip .
3 I listen in as my pilot , who is sitting behind me , radios the tower for permission to take off .
3 Next to the fact that all the pilots have nicknames , the coolest feature of this ride is my communication with the pilot and air-traffic control .

3 We blast into the bright-blue sky over a glorious field of rainbow stripes .
3 The Flower Fields at the Carlsbad Ranch explode every spring with 50 acres of blooms combed across rolling hills .
3 It 's quite a spectacle viewing them on land , but from a bird 's - eye view , well , that is one trippy sight .

3 Soon we are cruising south toward San Diego .
3 From 1,000 feet above sea level the coast becomes a work of art .
3 Wavy brown seaweed creates hypnotic patterns under the translucent sea , and rows of breaking waves leave long , wispy wakes on the ocean 's surface .
3 Colorful lobster buoys dot the water like a modern-art masterpiece .

3 The beauty of flying in an open cockpit is that there 's nothing -- except for some wood and a lot of air -- between me and the seascape below .
3 With the wind blowing wildly around me , the sun 's radiant heat hitting my face , and the taste of clean ocean air , it 's almost sensory overload .

3 We fly over the flour-white sands of South Carlsbad State Beach .
3 In early winter , gray whales can be spotted migrating south .
3 One sight guaranteed any time of year , however , is the parade of multimillion-dollar mansions teetering along the edges of high sand bluffs .

3 Bronco buzzes past Encinitas , a laid-back beach town lined with taco stands , juice bars and markets selling tiki paraphernalia .
3 On the ground , yellow road signs warn cars of surfers crossing .
3 From the sky , the wave riders look like seals loitering in the waves off Swami 's Beach , a famous surf break named for a nearby yoga meditation retreat .

3 We breeze over Torrey Pines State Reserve , a scraggy piece of land contrasting dramatically with the famous manicured golf course , also named for the rare tree .
3 ` This is a little reminder of what California looked like before bulldozers arrived , ' Bronco 's voice explains in my headset .

3 Seeing the world from this vantage point is like peering into a seaside diorama .
3 Kayaks off La Jolla 's coast appear as red slivers in the sea , while sunbathing sea lions resemble miniature logs .
3 Parasailers float like bubbles beneath us , and I squint to look closer as we pass over clothing-optional Black 's Beach .

3 ` Do you want to take the controls ? '
3 Bronco asks .
3 ` Uh , no , ' I reply .
3 ` Unless you want to end up in the ocean . '

3 But I 'm still game for excitement , and ask him to try some aeronautical tricks he mentioned earlier during the ride .
3 It 's unclear exactly what we 're doing next , but my heart is in my throat , the horizon is spinning , and I 'm screaming like a baby -- a crazily happy one .

3 Finally , we do a 180-degree turn over San Diego 's Pacific Beach and head back home .
2 Passengers who take the sunset flight can look for a green flash as the sun dips into the sea .
3 ` Sometimes , we do a rapid climb into the sky and see a second sunset , ' Bronco radios .

3 The landing is soft and easy , and we sputter to the hangar .
3 ` People always get off the plane happy and smiling , ' Bronco says .
3 He 's right .
3 I feel lighter , fresher , more carefree .
3 And as I walk back to the hangar , I ca n't wipe the grin off my face .

3 Above It All 

3 In addition to biplanes , Barnstorming Adventures -LRB- 800\/759 -5667 -RRB- offers aerobatic rides in a WWII war-bird plane .
3 Or , thrillseekers can play out a dogfight in two Varga air-combat planes .
1 Biplane flights start at $ 199 for one or two people ; war-bird and dogfight flights cost more .

1 The company 's Sunset Special Fly\/Dine package for two -LRB- $ 569 -RRB- includes a 60-minute sunset flight , followed by a three-course meal at the nearby Four Seasons Aviara Vivace restaurant .
3 Rooms at the Four Seasons Resort Aviara in Carlsbad start at $ 405 per night -LRB- discount packages sometimes available -RRB- ; call 760\/603 -6800 .
3 More places to soar above the sea E-mail to a friend
