2 Commentary : Tax-free hypocrisy from higher education - CNN.com .
3 NEW YORK -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- There is an industry in this country that is making billions in profit while average Americans are struggling to fill up their gas tanks .

3 It 's an industry that made an average profit of nearly 17 percent in 2007 while most Americans could barely keep up with inflation .

3 It 's an industry whose members paid a grand total of zero dollars in tax on their endowments last year .

3 Are you outraged ?
3 Are you ready to call on Congress to investigate or demand that a ` windfall ' tax be placed on these egregious profits ?

3 Well put down the phone because the industry I 'm talking about is Higher Education .
3 And make no mistake , it is an industry .

3 The top five college and university endowments reported a combined value of over $ 100 billion at the end of 2007 .
3 That 's five funds , a hundred billion in cash .
3 Not a nickel in tax .
3 Not an ounce of outrage .

3 Harvard University , which has the largest endowment in the country , has a total of $ 34.6 billion .
3 To put into perspective just how much money that is , consider that the largest charitable foundation in the world , the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , has a total endowment of $ 37.3 billion .

3 But while their financial statements may look similar , their missions are n't .
3 The Gates Foundation is working to cure malaria , develop new tuberculosis vaccines , and stop the spread of AIDS .
3 Most of our colleges and universities are only working to spread the radical political views of some of their professors .

3 Let me be clear : I have absolutely no problem with Harvard or any other school having billions in cash .
3 In fact , good for them !

3 I have no problem with Harvard posting an unbelievable 23 percent rate of return on their money last year .
3 The truth is , I 'm jealous of it .

3 I have no problem with the fact that if you project Harvard 's endowment out using their historical rate of return they would have over half a TRILLION dollars in 20 years .

3 I do n't even have a problem with Harvard not paying one dime of tax on any of that money .

3 What I do have a problem with -- and it 's a big one -- is how Harvard spends that money .
1 Or , maybe it would be more accurate to say how Harvard , does n't spend that money .

3 Schools with large endowments -LRB- at least $ 500 million -RRB- reported spending an average of 4.4 percent of their stockpiles in 2007 .
3 Meanwhile , those same schools made an average of over 19 percent on their money .

1 But I also have another problem , and that is how these sanctimonious institutions who are so good at complaining about the injustices of our government are nothing but really highly educated hypocrites .

2 For what 's been estimated to be about $ 300 million a year -LRB- less than 1 percent of their endowment 's value -RRB- Harvard could completely waive tuition , room and board for every single one of their students .
3 Instead , they announced an increase in those fees of about 3.5 percent for next year .
3 Being a student at Harvard will now cost a staggering $ 47,215 a year .

3 Does n't Harvard know how many millions of Americans are struggling to afford college ?
3 Do n't they want to pay their fair share and help those who are less fortunate ?

3 Some politicians in Massachusetts who ca n't stand to see so many billions dangling just out of their reach , have proposed a new tax on large university endowments .
3 They do n't have a cute name for it yet , so let 's call it an ` endowment windfall tax . '

3 Under their proposal , all endowments over a billion dollars would be taxed at 2.5 percent , a rate any wealthy individual or corporation would salivate over .
3 The tax would net the state over $ 1.4 billion a year , which is a lot of money considering that Boston currently receives about $ 1.8 million a year from the school .

3 So how did Harvard , which is basically the Exxon-Mobil of higher education -LRB- minus the accusations of price-gouging -RRB- , react to that proposal ?
3 In a word , conservatively .

3 ` You 'd be taxing success here , ' Kevin Casey , Harvard 's associate vice president for government , community and public affairs complained in a quote that will soon be framed and hung in my office .
3 ` Over time , this would put us at a real competitive disadvantage , which would drastically hurt the Commonwealth . '

3 No Kevin , you 're looking at it the wrong way .
3 These politicians are n't trying to hurt you , they 're just trying to level the playing field .
3 Greater Shrewsbury Liberal Arts Community Technical College for Women down the road is struggling and here you are making billions .
3 If they could just redistribute some of your profits to GSLACTCFW then everybody would be happy .

2 Does anyone else find it ironic that universities overflowing with liberal professors -LRB- a 2005 study revealed that 72 percent of professors view themselves that way -RRB- embrace conservative values only when it suits them ?

3 As a conservative , I do n't believe in taxing anyone just because they have a lot of money or are an easy target .
3 That applies to individuals , businesses and universities .
3 I believe that taxing success discourages success , and that 's not what America stands for .

1 But I also believe in something else : consistency and accountability .
1 And that 's where most of our colleges and universities fail miserably .

3 Besides , Harvard , you 're in the wealthiest 1 percent .
3 Is n't it time to help those who are less fortunate ?

3 Editor 's note : ` Glenn Beck ' is on CNN Headline News nightly at 7 and 9 ET and hosts a conservative national radio talk show .
3 The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the writer .
