2 Commentary : How Obama should run war on terror - CNN.com .

3 Editor 's note : Peter Bergen is CNN 's national security analyst and a fellow at the New America Foundation in Washington and at New York University 's Center on Law and Security .
3 His most recent book is ` The Osama bin Laden I Know : An Oral History of al Qaeda 's Leader . '
3 This is the second of two commentaries on the war on terror .
3 Read the first piece here 

1 WASHINGTON -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- In the war against al Qaeda and its allies , Barack Obama should adopt five key principles when he takes office .

1 First , the United States must lower the temperature in the Muslim world to help win back the ` swing voters ' in the Islamic world who turned against America and provide passive support to al Qaeda .

3 The Obama administration can do this by working as an honest broker to resolve conflicts such as those in Kashmir and Israel\/Palestine that serve as grievances for Muslims and sometimes training grounds for militants .

3 In addition , to help regain the moral high ground the United States should promptly close the prison camp at Guantanamo Bay and announce that it will never engage in coercive interrogations of detainees .

1 A second strategic doctrine should be : first , do no harm .
3 Its rationale lies in the several major strategic weaknesses from which al Qaeda and its associated groups suffer .

3 Encoded in the DNA of groups like al Qaeda are the seeds of their own long-term destruction : Their victims are more often than not Muslim civilians ; the organization does n't offer a positive vision of the future -LRB- but rather the prospect of Taliban-style regimes from Morocco to Indonesia -RRB- ; it keeps expanding its list of enemies , including any Muslim who does n't precisely share its world view ; and it seems incapable of becoming a politically successful movement because al Qaeda 's ideology prevents it from making the real-world compromises that would allow it to engage in genuine politics .

3 This is not , however , an argument for doing nothing .
3 It is paradoxically their very weaknesses and lack of return addresses that makes the jihadist terrorists more likely to attack the United States than traditional state antagonists .

3 The ` do no harm ' doctrine would have served the Bush administration well before it attacked Iraq , given the more than 4,000 dead and 30,000 wounded American soldiers ; the tens of thousands of Iraqis killed ; the cost to U.S. taxpayers that could top a trillion dollars , and the fact that jihadist terrorist attacks increased around the world sevenfold in the three years following the 2003 invasion , according to a study by Paul Cruickshank of NYU and myself .

1 Consideration of the ` do no harm ' policy should guide future Obama decisions about Pakistan and Iran where the wrong choices will help empower militants .

3 The third doctrine is to disaggregate our enemies .
3 The United States must not fall into bin Laden 's rhetorical trap of believing there is a monolithic global jihadist militant movement united against it .
3 The United States should be splintering , buying off and co-opting its enemies -- the kind of policy that severely damaged al Qaeda in Iraq .

3 Al Qaeda in Iraq 's -LRB- AQI -RRB- unrestrained violence and imposition of Taliban ideology on Iraqis was a self-inflicted wound provoking a countrywide Sunni backlash against AQI in the form of ` Awakening ' militias allied with the United States .

3 The combination of the Sunni militias ' on-the-ground intelligence about former AQI allies and American firepower , proved devastating to al Qaeda 's Iraqi franchise .
3 The lessons of this model can be applied to the wars in Afghanistan and Pakistan , with all the usual caveats that Iraq is far from exactly analogous to South Asia .

3 The fourth doctrine is to approach the war on al Qaeda and allied groups as a global counterinsurgency campaign , something that thoughtful students of the global war on terror like the Australian anthropologist\/infantry officer Lt. Col. David Kilcullen and Bruce Hoffman , the dean of terrorism studies , have advocated for years .

3 Successful counterinsurgency solutions are generally 80 percent political and only 20 percent military .
3 The by now well-known statistic that there are more musicians in U.S. military bands than American Foreign Service Officers speaks volumes about the disproportionate government funding of a U.S. military still overly oriented to superpower warfare .

3 Winning wars politically requires not additional billion-dollar aircraft carriers but more relatively inexpensive diplomats , trainers who can build up local police forces and embedded Special Forces soldiers who specialize in training indigenous armies .

1 Finally , promoting more open societies in the Muslim world will undermine the jihadist terrorists .
3 It is no accident that so many members of jihadist terror organizations come from countries such as Saudi Arabia , Yemen , Algeria and Egypt -- countries ruled by authoritarian regimes .

3 The Bush administration tended to put its faith in elections as a synonym for ` democracy . '
2 A more effective approach is to emphasize the larger concepts that underpin democracy such as rule of law -- ` justice ' is a particularly resonant concept in the Muslim world -- and a free press .

1 And that 's what Muslims want for themselves , according to Pew polls taken since 9\/11 in 17 countries in the Middle East , Asia and Africa .
3 Pew found that Muslim publics attach considerable importance to ` freedom to criticize the government .
3 Honest multi-party elections , a fair-handed judiciary and a press free to report without government censorship . '

3 That sounds a lot like the values that Americans also hold dear .
3 The Obama administration will come into office with a great deal of work to do from Kabul to Kashmir and from Iraq to Indonesia .
3 But it can do so secure in the knowledge that Muslims embrace many of the same political values that Americans do .

3 The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Peter Bergen .
