1 Professor makes black hole breakthroughs , ballads - CNN.com .
2 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- ` Attracted by your gravity , your body 's so compact \/ Pulling me inward , prepare for close contact , ' Boston University astronomer Alan Marscher sings in his song about a deep-space object known as a black hole .

3 Marscher once used other rock groups ' songs to illustrate scientific concepts for his students , such the Einsteinian '' 39 ' by Queen .

1 Then he began writing his own songs tailored to specific lectures like ` Superluminal Lover , ' a black hole ballad full of physics and innuendo .
3 Watch him sing ` Superluminal Lover ' .

2 The song may not have won him much fame , but an international team of researchers that Marscher leads has just published some breakthrough research on the same black hole phenomena he sings about .

3 Black holes are somewhat like vacuum cleaners in space .
3 These collapsed stars suck in anything and everything in their immediate vicinities and do n't let anything escape , not even light .

3 The vacuum cleaner idea of a black hole is n't perfect .
1 Astronomers have also detected jet streams of particles traveling at nearly the speed of light , as well as X-rays and gamma rays , shooting out from black holes .

3 Using radio telescopes set up all over the world , Marscher and colleagues studied a black hole nearly 1 billion light years away -LRB- one light year is about 5.9 trillion miles -RRB- .
2 They found evidence supporting one theory of why the black hole has these jet streams .

3 As matter falls into a black hole , it swirls around like water going down a drain , Marscher said .
3 The closer things get to the black hole , the faster they begin to orbit .

3 The magnetic field then twists , like a spring that coils up , he said .
3 This magnetic field propels particles along the black hole 's rotational poles .

1 Marscher 's team found direct evidence to support this explanation , detecting the twisted magnetic field and the polarized light that results from it .

1 ` This paper represents a significant advance in the field , ' said Marc Lacy , an associate research scientist at Caltech 's Spitzer Science Center .
3 ` The authors make a convincing case that what they 'd see is what you 'd expect to see in this model of jet formation . '

1 Lukasz Stawarz , a researcher at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center , said Marscher 's team 's observations contribute significantly to our understanding of this type of black hole and provide evidence of a model that had little confirmation before .

2 ` Observations reported by Alan Marscher and collaborators , although not definitive , are very convincing and novel in this respect , ' he said .

1 The researchers eagerly await results from NASA 's Gamma-ray Large Area Space Telescope , a space observatory that may provide even more insight into black holes ' jet streams .
1 The spacecraft will launch no later than June 3 , NASA said .

3 Black holes can not be seen because they do not emit any light , but astronomers have found substantial evidence of them .
3 Still , no existing telescope is powerful enough to observe exactly what goes on so close to a black hole , Lacy said .

3 ` These are very rare objects , and so it 's not until we look a great distance away that we see one whose jet pointing almost right at us , ' Marscher said .
3 ` Then , when we see a jet pointing almost right at us , the jet beams its radiation , like a halogen flashlight . '

3 Although astronomers have detected black holes only in deep space , there is speculation that a black hole could be generated at the Large Hadron Collider , the multibillion-dollar particle accelerator under development at the European Organization for Nuclear Research in Geneva , Switzerland .

3 The idea that a black hole could emerge in these experiments is far-fetched , Marscher said .
3 But even if the accelerator did create a black hole , it would n't necessarily be harmful , he said .
3 See what 's planned for the collider .

3 ` If you made a little tiny black hole in a laboratory , it would n't have that much gravity .
3 It would n't suck in everything that 's on the Earth ; it would just suck in stuff that 's within , say , a few millimeters of it , ' he said .
3 ` It would n't be the devastating danger that science-fiction writers would say , because it 'd be a real tiny mass. ' 

3 Still , even a laboratory-made black hole should n't be kept around for long .
3 By its nature of sucking things up , it could just grow and grow , accumulating more mass and more power to pull in more things .

3 ` I think I would put it into something that had a lot of mass and then just toss it off into space , so it would n't come into contact with very much matter so it would n't grow . ' Marscher said .

3 From the time he was a pre-teen , he was interested in astronomy .
3 But he did n't think he could do it for a living , so he signed up for engineering at Cornell University .

3 Still , he ended up in astronomy , despite the low odds of making it into graduate school and earning a faculty position .

3 ` My philosophy has always been that even if you have only a low probability of succeeding in a career , you should try anyway , so that you do n't wake up when you 're middle-aged and wonder what could have been , ' he said .

3 Though he was in a rock band in high school , Marscher was n't too tempted to become a professional musician .
2 He wrote his dozen science songs to complement his teaching in a course called ` The Evolution of the Physical Universe and of the Earth , ' part of Boston University 's core curriculum for undergraduates .

3 ` Anybody 's attention span during an hourlong period does n't really focus on someone just lecturing , ' he said .
3 The music ` really does help to liven up the lectures . '
