3 Toddler rock : Paul Field - CNN.com .
3 SYDNEY , Australia -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- This is not just child 's play , it 's big business .
3 ` The Wiggles ' are a hit among the toddler set .
3 But that was n't always their intended audience .
3 The group initially tried their hands at rock -- under a different name -- in their native Australia .

3 Eventually , with degrees in childhood education , Anthony , Murray , Greg and Jeff swapped rock for rhyme and became icons to the young .

3 In 17 years , they 've sold 17 million DVDs , 4 million CDs , and continue to play to capacity crowds around the world .

3 At The Wiggles global HQ on the outskirts of Sydney , The Boardroom 's Andrew Stevens asked managing director Paul Field -- an accomplished musician in his own right and brother of Anthony -- what is the secret of their success .

3 Field : It 's a confluence of reasons really , I think it 's , um , firstly the music is engaging , and it 's a huge part of their appeal .
1 Secondly , the guys are also not cast members , they are actually the creators of the brand and the show .
1 And that informs everything they do : the songs , the stories , their characters .
3 So the confluence of all those three factors , plus an ` X factor , ' makes them quite unique .

3 Stevens : Now you 've seen it up close , what is it ?
3 How do you create the ` X factor , ' or is it a total mystery ?

3 Field : You have to lose your ego when you 're a preschool teacher , you know .
1 Their audience , you know , our audience is egocentric : There 's only one person in the world and it 's them , right ?
3 So once you know that , you can guide your songs , your stories to that .

3 Stevens : Was there a business plan right from the beginning ?

1 Field : There was not a business plan , no , it was creatively led .
2 And I think with a lot of things , it 's best that way , it was organically grown and they wanted to do it 'cause it was fun .
3 And they had this , well , in Jeff and Anthony 's case , a musical background and an educational background ... Let 's combine them .
3 And do something unique .

3 So that 's what drove them in the earliest of days , but from fairly early days it engaged , they were drawing audiences .
3 And so the business became quite busy that Anthony and Murray had to make the decisions to leave teaching , which was a big decision at the time , and go on the road , because this business was there .

3 So in the earliest of days and they did this for five or six years plus their model was ` we tour , ' which drives the business .
3 And they toured 10 months of every year right around Australia , and they would release one DVD and CD per year .
3 And that was the model and that pretty much was it , and we 've just refined that over the years .
3 And it was n't really I suppose till the late nineties , mid to late nineties , once there was interest from the USA when we thought , ooh , this could actually go beyond our shores .

3 -LRB- It certainly did , not only in the U.S. From Japan to Latin America to Taiwan , the Wiggles became a hit . -RRB-

3 Field : Ok , so this is our recording studio , and this is where we record all the Wiggles music , including overseas versions of Wiggles music , so I think we have the Latin American version of ` Fruit Salad ' ... and we 've also got a version in Mandarin , ` Fruit Salad . '

3 -LRB- Translating their hits into Spanish and Mandarin has given the Wiggles traction in non-English markets ... while back at home in Australia and in the U.S. , they are now chasing the theme-park market . -RRB-

3 Stevens : Did you ever consider selling out in letting someone like Disney buy the Wiggles lock , stock and barrel , and walking away with a lot of money and still be able to do the Wiggles without the financial headaches ?

3 Field : We have certainly been offered a number of times by different companies , major companies over the years .
3 And the first couple of times it happened it was a bit overwhelming , and the guys were saying , we really love the way we do this , and that was a big part of it .
3 ` We do n't know what it means . '
3 And I 'm really glad they made that decision way back over the years , because as a company they are worth so much more now .
