1 At least 10 drug suspects killed in Brazil police raid - CNN.com .
1 RIO DE JANEIRO , Brazil -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Police have killed at least 10 drug-trafficking suspects in all-day shootouts in Brazil that closed schools and government offices in three Rio de Janeiro neighborhoods , the official news agency said .

3 The confrontations started Wednesday morning when civil police entered the neighborhoods in search of suspects , the state-run Agencia Brasil said .
3 In the afternoon , when civil police were leaving , military police moved in and the shootouts started anew .

1 A woman was wounded and in critical condition , the news agency said , citing the state 's health minister .

1 Two schools were closed , and 6,600 students were sent home .

3 Rio de Janeiro police chief Gilberto Ribeiro vowed that the operations will continue but conceded that trafficking will pick back up after the raids end .

3 ` You ca n't get discouraged , but you ca n't deny that the state is barely drying it up , ' the news agency quoted him as saying .
3 ` They need work and are looking for solutions .
3 People get discouraged and join these criminal gangs .
3 All this is happening in a context that police are not going to resolve . '

1 Rio has been plagued by a wave of violence that led to protests in December by a group called Rio de Paz .
2 The group said 9,000 people have been slain and secretly buried since January 2007 .

1 Many of the deaths come from drug traffickers fighting for territory in Rio 's slums and poor neighborhoods , said the group 's president , Antonio Carlos Costa .
2 Others are killed by hit squads and police acting on their own .

2 ` In general , they are assassinated by police -- police acting outside of their regular work hours , ' Costa said at the time .
1 ` They are also assassinated by narco-traffickers .
2 The bodies are disposed of in secret cemeteries in the metropolitan Rio de Janeiro area or incinerated alive by narco-traffickers in what they call ` microwaves . ' '

3 The term refers to pits and ditches where bodies are burned .
