2 Commentary : Stimulus bill a sorry spectacle - CNN.com .
3 Editor 's Note : Jack Cafferty is the author of a new book , ` Now or Never : Getting Down to the Business of Saving Our American Dream , ' to be published in March .
3 He provides commentary on CNN 's ` The Situation Room ' daily from 4 to 7 p.m. You can also visit Jack 's Cafferty File blog .

3 NEW YORK -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- What a joke .
1 Your Congress has voted to spend almost $ 790 billion of your money on a stimulus package that not a single member of either chamber has read .

1 The 1,073-page document was n't posted on the government 's Web site until after 10 p.m. the day before the vote to pass it was taken .
2 I do n't care if you 're Evelyn Wood , you ca n't read almost 1,100 pages of the lawyer talk that makes up all legislation in eight or 10 hours .

3 The criminal part of this boondoggle is divided into two parts .
1 The first is the Democrats promised to post the bill a full 48 hours before the vote was taken to allow members of the public to see what they were getting for their money .
1 Both parties voted unanimously to do this ... and they lied .

1 It did n't happen .
3 Why am I not surprised ?
3 Congress lying to the American people has become part of their job description .
3 They ca n't be trusted on anything anymore .

3 I 'm sure part of the reason there was no time for the public to read the bill was the 11th-hour internecine warfare between House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid .

3 When Reid first announced the compromise had been reached , Nancy Pelosi was nowhere to be seen .
3 And it would take an act of God for this egotistical , arrogant woman to miss a photo op where she could take credit for anything .
3 But she was n't there .

3 She summoned Reid to her office , where unnamed sources said she blew her top over some provision for schools that she was n't happy with .
3 Pelosi 's snit delayed everything .

3 It 's really too bad President Obama could n't figure out a way to jettison these two who are poster children for everything that is wrong in Washington .
3 The Associated Press called the birth of the stimulus bill ` sausage making ' in the best tradition of Washington politics as usual .

3 The second part of the crime is the contents of the bill itself .
3 Far from being only about jobs , infrastructure and tax cuts as promised , the stimulus bill stimulates a bunch of other stuff as well .
2 Eight billion dollars for high-speed rail lines , including a proposed line between Las Vegas and Los Angeles .
3 This little bit of second story work was n't even in the House version of the bill .
3 iReport.com : So many things to do , what would you fix first ?

3 It started in the Senate as a $ 2 billion project , and came out of the conference committee costing a whopping $ 8 billion .
2 Gee , now who would that benefit ?
2 Oh yeah , the Senate majority leader is from Nevada .

3 Filipino veterans , most of whom do n't live in the U.S. , will get $ 200 million in compensation for World War II injuries .
3 And : $ 2 billion in grants and loans for battery companies , $ 100 million for small shipyards and a rollback of the alternative minimum tax at a cost of some $ 70 billion .

3 The AMT provision is much-needed legislation , but it does n't belong in the stimulus bill .
3 It forced other things out so Congress could keep to its self-imposed $ 800 billion cap .

1 And when it comes to the tax cuts contained in the stimulus bill , experts have determined they will amount to about $ 13 per week after taxes for the average American .
1 I 'm not sure how much stimulation $ 13 a week buys .
3 It depends on the neighborhood .

3 The biggest problem of all is the stimulus bill may not be nearly enough .
3 And if the president has to come back asking for more , the next time might not be so easy .

3 So far , we have an anemic stimulus bill and some sort of vague proposal from the secretary of the Treasury to deal with the banking crisis -- a proposal that landed with a thud last week -- as the two first steps toward solving a financial crisis that is threatening to take down the country .

3 Obama better step up his game , or it 's going to be a short four years in office .

3 The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Jack Cafferty .
