1 Canada reports new mad cow case - CNN.com .
2 VANCOUVER , British Columbia -LRB- AP -RRB- -- A new case of mad cow disease was confirmed in Canada , its 13th case since 2003 .

1 There was no risk to public health because no part of the animal entered the human food systems , government inspectors said .

1 The Canadian Food Inspection Agency said Monday that the latest case of mad cow disease , also known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy , or BSE , does not suggest the problem is more widespread .

3 Mad cow disease causes spongy holes in the brain .
3 In people , a rare but fatal form of the disease called variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease has been linked to eating infected tissue from cows .

2 ` We 're very confident that BSE is not common in Canada because of our surveillance , ' said George Luterbach , a veterinarian with the agency .

3 It is the third case in British Columbia in the last three years .

1 Luterbach said Canada has been assessed by the World Organization for Animal Health and given a controlled-risk status , indicating it has the proper checks and balances to control the disease .

3 ` As part of our risk assessment , it was recognized that as Canada moves to the eradication of BSE ... there would likely be a small number cases that will be detected along the way , and this is well understood by our trading partners , ' he said Monday .

1 Luterbach said more than 220,000 cattle in Canada have been tested for BSE since the country 's first case in 2003 .

3 ` Those cattle have been selected to be the highest potential risk animals for BSE , ' he said .

3 The Canadian Food Inspection Agency has n't said where the infected cow is located but an investigation is under way to determine where the cow was born .

3 In 2006 and 2007 , the disease was found in two British Columbia dairy cows , and in both cases the agency said the infection was caused by contaminated feed .

3 The inspection agency said a ban on using animal materials in feed products has virtually eliminated the spread of BSE in Canada , but it said a small number of mad cow cases are still expected to surface .
