3 Is your job recession-proof ? - CNN.com .
1 Though it 's difficult to predict exactly how the year will pan out , weak job growth , a slowing economy and troubled housing markets all point to signs of an economic recession .
1 The good news for job seekers is that employers are still hiring and certain industries will survive -LRB- even thrive -RRB- during hard times .

3 Thirty-two percent of employers plan to add full-time , permanent employees in 2008 , according to a CareerBuilder.com survey .
3 Most employers are cautious , but anticipate a slower , yet steady hiring environment .

3 ` Many job seekers make the mistake of attempting a career change during downturns , ' says John A. Challenger , chief executive officer of Challenger , Gray & Christmas , a global outplacement consultancy .
3 ` This can be a career-crippling move .
3 It is much better to focus on transferring your current occupations skills to industries that remain healthy . '

2 While some industries , including retail , manufacturing , finance and technology , are vulnerable during recessions , Challenger says there are always industries that seem ` recession-resistant , ' based on different trends at the time of the slowdown .

3 ` Do not make the mistake of thinking that only those with industry-specific skills will be in demand .
2 Hospitals not only need nurses and physical therapists , they need administrators and information technology workers , ' Challenger says .
2 ` Firms specializing in information security need accountants and marketing professionals in addition to computer programmers .
2 There should be a wide variety of opportunities in the industries that remain strong through the slowdown . '

3 Are you working in a recession-proof business ?
1 Here is a list of industries expected to offer the best opportunities for job seekers during the predicted slump , according to Challenger , Gray & Christmas .

1 Industry No. 1 : Education 
2 With more teachers retiring and an increasing number of students enrolling in grades K-12 , the demand for skilled teachers is rising .
2 The National Center for Education Statistics predicts that in the next eight years , 2.8 million teachers must join the existing 3.2 million teachers because of retirements , higher enrollment and teacher turnover .
2 Other thriving jobs in education : Administrators , independent consultants and sales executives to supply text books and other learning materials .

1 Industry No. 2 : Energy 
2 The oil industry faces 80 percent of its work force reaching retirement age in the next decade , according to Challenger , Gray & Christmas .
1 As a result , jobs related to oil and gas , alternative and renewable energy , and even nuclear energy are likely to see job growth at a steady pace .

2 Other thriving jobs in energy : Geoscientists , nuclear power reactor operators and engineers .

1 Industry No. 3 : Environmental sector 
2 The environmental industry created 5.3 million jobs in 2005 , according to a United Nations report .
2 As concerns about global warming swell , more and more companies are ` going green ' and will hire engineers and scientists to develop ` green ' technology .
3 They 'll also need guidance for becoming more eco-friendly .

2 Other thriving jobs in the environmental sector : Environmental consultants , program managers and attorneys .

1 Industry No. 4 : Health care 
2 Nearly half of the 30 fastest growing jobs are in health services , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics .
2 Some of these jobs include medical assistants , physical therapists and home health aides .

2 Employers in California entice nurses with $ 7,500 signing bonuses for hard-to-fill jobs and $ 3,500 for traditional positions , according to the California Jobs Journal .
3 They 're also providing $ 3,000 annually for continuing education and relocation reimbursement , as well as time off to pursue professional interests , overtime pay and the option to work 12-hour shifts with four days off per week .

2 Other thriving jobs in health care : Physician assistants , medical records and health information technicians , and personal and home care aides .

1 Industry No. 5 : Security 
2 There will always be a need for security , whether it 's in airports , at US borders or in a company protecting vital information .
2 The Defense and Homeland Security departments need to fill an estimated 83,000 jobs over the next two years , according to a 2007 report by the Partnership for Public Service .

2 Other thriving jobs in security : Transportation security , information security managers and computer programmers .
3 E-mail to a friend
