2 Balloon rides come to New York 's Central Park - CNN.com .
3 NEW YORK -LRB- AP -RRB- -- Want to look down on the rich and famous ?
3 Go eye to eagle-eye with a winged predator ?
3 See the sun rise over Queens ?
3 How better to do this than from a balloon 30 stories above Central Park ?

1 The opportunity arises , so to speak , on Friday when a private company begins offering rides over the 843-acre park for $ 25 per adult and $ 17.50 for kids .

3 Other than the wicker basket accommodating a pilot and four passengers , there 's not much to suggest the Jules Verne classic , ` Around the World in 80 Days . '
1 No roaring flame providing hot air ; instead the balloon is filled with helium , an inert , nonflammable gas .
1 And no soaring for miles ; the 45-foot-diameter envelope is tethered to the ground and raised and lowered by a winch for a 10-minute hover above the park .

3 ` Get a spectacular daytime view of Central Park and bustling streets , or wait until sundown and float above dazzling city lights , ' says the AeroBalloon Web site .
3 But it adds that the best time is early morning , ` when the winds are most calm and the sunrise view is extraordinary . '

3 The flight will also offer a panorama of posh hotels and luxury high-rise apartments that border the park , not to mention celebrities walking their dogs .

1 The purpose of the rides is to mark the 150th anniversary of Central Park , the nation 's first major urban park , created by architects Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux and opened to the public in 1858 .

3 Their original 10 foot-by-5 foot ` greensward plan , ' as it was called , is mounted on the wall of the headquarters of the Central Park Conservancy , which manages the park .

2 ` This is a historic event -- it gives people a chance after 150 years to see the real greensward plan , not just the paper version , ' said Doug Blonsky , the conservancy 's president .
3 ` We all get to experience the wonders of Central Park on the ground , and now from above . '

3 AeroBalloon said its balloons have been ` wowing crowds for years ' at ballparks and other urban settings around the United States .
3 While this is the company 's first venture in Central Park , tethered balloons were a popular novelty in the park 's early years , Blonsky said .

3 They now require a permit from the Federal Aviation Administration .
3 The FAA , responsible for air-traffic safety , permits balloons no higher than 500 feet .
3 It did not return a call seeking comment .
