3 CES preview : Touting tech in a brutal economy - CNN.com .
1 LAS VEGAS , Nevada -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- As 130,000 techies converge on Las Vegas this week for the 42nd annual International Consumer Electronics Show , they 're encountering an industry that 's anxious about marketing high-tech gadgets in a tightwad economy .

3 With many Americans struggling to pay bills , find jobs and even avoid foreclosure , it may seem like an extravagance to spend hundreds of dollars on a laptop or a digital camera .

1 But financial fears also are causing consumers to spend more time at home , where they still want to be entertained .
1 Industry observers believe this nesting trend could sustain demand for products -- Blu-ray players , stereos , video games , cheap computers -- that brighten the family room while easing the sting of canceling that Disney World vacation .

2 ` We 're about to experience a renaissance in in-home entertainment , ' said Scott Steinberg , publisher of DigitalTrends.com .
3 ` History proves that even during times of recession , people are willing to invest heavily in great escapes , and products that take their mind off the concerns and vagaries of everyday life .

3 ` That being said , consumers are becoming smarter about how they spend their money , ' he added .
3 ` This year 's mindset will be less about luxury than convenience , and a specific gadget or technology 's pure ability at the end of the day to get the job done . '
3 Watch some of the gadgets already getting attention 

1 With an uneasy eye on the economy , tech companies seem to be scaling back expectations for CES , which kicks off officially on Thursday .
3 Attendance will likely be down about 8 percent , and few blockbuster announcements are expected .
3 Industry heavyweights also are downsizing the usual slate of lavish corporate parties that in 2006 saw the Foo Fighters gigging for Motorola and Intel hosting The Black Eyed Peas .

3 ` The pre-buzz has really been a lot quieter than it 's been in recent years , ' said Kent German , a senior editor at CNET.com , who is attending his fifth CES .
3 German believes more tech companies are choosing to launch products at other times of the year when they do n't have to compete for attention .

3 ` At CES there 's just so much noise , ' he said .
3 ` I can see companies saying , ` Let 's do it -LRB- another time -RRB- on our own terms . ' '

3 Even so , as the biggest annual showcase of new tech products , CES will always make headlines .
3 After all , past shows have introduced the world to the CD player and the plasma TV .
3 This year 's trade show , which wraps Sunday , features 2,700 exhibitors , including the CES debuts of such marquee companies as Blockbuster , Electronic Arts , Mattel and Verizon Wireless .

3 Tech observers also are curious to see Internet giant Cisco Systems launch its first-ever line of consumer-electronics products , Palm unveil its long-delayed Nova operating system , and Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer offer an early preview of Windows 7 .

3 ` It 's not going to be exactly the same .
3 Attendance is going to be down , ' PC Magazine editor Dan Costa told CNN .
3 ` But it 's still a massive show .
3 And there 's going to be a lot of news there . '
3 iReport.com : Are you excited about CES ?

3 So what trends and products will be making news most often at CES ?
1 Based on a scouring of tech blogs and interviews with industry observers , here 's a brief roundup of what will be hot in Vegas this week : 

1 Netbooks . In a weak economy , these small and cheap laptops will continue to be popular .
3 Already loaded with Wi-fi , webcams and other features , these ultra-portable computers will soon come with GPS and touch screens as well -- all for prices under $ 500 .
3 Look for a new wave of them at CES .

3 Thin OLED TVs .
3 You 've heard of LCD and LED -- now meet OLED , which stands for organic light-emitting diode and creates a gorgeous picture .
3 For now , they 're also way too expensive -- Sony 's XEL-1 , the world 's first OLED TV , costs $ 2,500 for an 11-inch screen -- but they 're cool to look at .
3 The screen panel on the Sony model is only 3 millimeters thick .

3 ` Sony has showcased its OLED TVs at CES before , but expect to see larger-size prototypes from them and from Samsung , who 's said it plans to show its version of the technology as well , ' said CNET news reporter Erica Ogg .

3 Mobile devices .
1 Touch screens , once limited to high-end smartphones such as Apple 's iPhone , are filtering down to mid-range devices as well .
3 Cell phone manufacturers also are increasingly building phones that shoot sharper photos and better video .

3 The biggest buzz might be building around Palm -LRB- remember the Palm Pilot ? -RRB-
3 , which is looking to regain relevance with the launch of an overhauled -- and much-hyped -- Nova operating system for its mobile phones .

3 ` I 'm very interested to see what Palm has to say , ' said CNET 's Ogg .
3 ` The company really needs a hit -- it has fallen so far behind its competitors like RIM and Apple in terms of smartphone innovation that Palm really has to hit this one out of the park . '

1 Wireless home electronics .
3 Will this mark the year we can finally say goodbye to that cumbersome tangle of wires behind our TVs and stereos ?
3 Probably not , but we 're getting there .

2 ` Interconnected smartphones , PCs , laptops , media extenders , video game consoles and digital music players are quickly infiltrating the mainstream consciousness , and modern home , ' said Steinberg of DigitalTrends.com .

2 ` I would n't go so far as to say that the wireless revolution is completely in full swing , but it 's definitely patiently waiting its turn at bat , ' he added .
3 ` All the market lacks at the moment is standardization , and a core catalyst -- a single , unifying code of conduct that enables media of all sorts to play well together on devices of all sorts . '

1 More ` green ' products .
2 Motorola is rumored to be launching a phone made from recycled tech waste .
2 And at least several manufacturers are promising to unveil pioneering , environmentally safe batteries -- including one made without lithium or lithium ion .

3 Downloadable video players .
3 ` We 're going to see a lot of devices that offer downloadable video , be they Blu-Ray players -LRB- or video game consoles -RRB- , ' said Costa of PC magazine , who believes prices of Blu-ray players will keep dropping .
3 ` All these devices can download video over the Internet , some of it in HD quality .
2 That 's the type of device we 're going to see a lot more of , and it makes perfect sense when people are looking to nest -LRB- at home -RRB- . '
