2 State Department scolds China on human rights - CNN.com .
1 WASHINGTON -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- The State Department issued a report Wednesday sharply critical of China 's human rights record , despite the Obama administration 's decision to take a different approach to the Asian country .

1 ` The government of China 's human rights record remained poor and worsened in some areas , ' the report said in reviewing the last year , finding Chinese authorities ` committed extrajudicial killings and torture , coerced confessions of prisoners and used forced labor . '

3 The ' 2008 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices , ' the annual report of human rights around the world , also accused China of ` severe cultural and religious repression ' of minorities in Tibet and other regions and increasing harassment and detention of dissidents and activists who signed a petition calling for respect of human rights .

3 China limits the rights of citizens to privacy and freedom of speech , assembly , movement and association , the report said .
3 It also noted that abuses peaked around high-profile events like last year 's Olympic Games in Beijing .

1 The critical report stands in sharp contrast to the lower-key approach Secretary of State Hillary Clinton took last week on her visit to Beijing .
3 Clinton broached the issue of human rights with Chinese leaders , but drew criticism from human rights activists for downplaying the issue 's importance in the overall relationship with China .

3 ` Our pressing on those issues ca n't interfere with the global economic crisis , the global climate change crisis , and the security crisis , ' she told reporters traveling with her , adding , ` It is essential that the United States and China have a positive , cooperative relationship . '

3 In the past , Clinton has been an outspoken , staunch critic of China 's human rights stance .
3 But officials have said privately that a new approach to dealing with China 's human rights record , including less public criticism and more private discussions , may prove more productive in changing Chinese behavior .

1 While not delving into U.S. human rights practices , the report acknowledged that the U.S. human rights record remains a concern around the world , and it said President Obama has vowed to apply global human rights ideals at home .

2 ` The Department of State remains mindful of both domestic and international scrutiny of the United States ' record , ' the report said .
3 ` We and all other sovereign nations have international obligations to respect the universal human rights and freedoms of our citizens , and it is the responsibility of others to speak out when they believe those obligations are not being fulfilled . '
