1 French ship released as China begins anti-pirate patrols - CNN.com .
1 PARIS , France -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Pirates have released a French merchant ship and its nine crew members seized off the Nigerian coast over the weekend , the ship 's owners said Wednesday .

3 The announcement came as two Chinese destroyers and a supply ship joined the growing international naval coalition patrolling the waters in the Gulf of Aden off Somalia .

3 The crew members of the Bourbon Leda are all in good health , Paris-based Bourbon said in a news release .
3 They will be ` rapidly reunited ' with their family and friends , the company said .

3 Pirates captured the Bourbon Leda , a supply vessel , on Sunday .
3 A Bourbon spokesman refused to comment when asked by CNN whether the company had paid a ransom for the ship 's release .

3 Pirates in neighboring Cameroon seized another Bourbon ship , the Bourbon Sagitta , and 10 of its crew members in October .
3 They released the vessel and its crew 11 days later .

3 Bourbon specializes in offshore oil and gas shipping and dry bulk transport .

1 Meanwhile , the Chinese convoy -- which left some two weeks ago on a mission to protect Chinese merchant ships from an increasing number of pirate attacks occurring in the gulf -- has received requests for help from at least 15 vessels , according to news reports .

1 It marks the first time Chinese naval vessels have left Chinese waters in centuries .
3 They will will join a multinational naval force already patrolling the area , including vessels from the United States , NATO member states , Russia and India .

3 Rear-Admiral Du Jingchen , the fleet 's commander , told Xinhua news agency the escort mission has started .

3 The fleet began escorting four ships -- one from Hong Kong and three from mainland China -- through the gulf on Tuesday afternoon , the China Shipowners ' Association told the South China Morning Post .

1 Fifteen ships have applied for protection including some from Hong Kong , said a director of the Ministry of Transport , He Jianzhong , according to the Hong Kong-based newspaper .

1 Figures from the International Maritime Bureau for the year-to-date show pirates have attacked almost 100 vessels and hijacked nearly 40 off the coast of Somalia .

3 The all-important Gulf of Aden links the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea .
3 Around 20,000 oil tankers , freighters and merchant vessels pass along the crucial shipping route each year .

3 China 's navy is considered a ` brown-water fleet ' -- designed to operate almost exclusively along its coast .
3 But the country has reportedly been working to rapidly modernize its navy for the past several years .

3 Chinese officials have said their mission would last as long as is necessary and in accordance with U.N. Security Council regulations .

3 The U.N. Security Council passed a resolution in December aimed at combating piracy along the Horn of Africa by allowing military forces to chase pirates onto land in cases of ` hot pursuit . '

3 Among the victims of pirate attacks have been cargo ships , oil tankers and luxury yachts .

3 At least one major company pulled its ships from the Gulf of Aden region this year , meaning cargo bound for Europe had to round the African continent rather than use the Suez Canal .
