1 Anglicans meet amid gay bishop row - CNN.com .
1 CANTERBURY , England -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Controversy over gay clergy and female bishops is likely to dominate the Anglican church 's once-a-decade conference , which begins Wednesday .

1 The Lambeth Conference in Canterbury , southern England , brings together archbishops and bishops from the Anglican church around the world .

1 But many invited bishops are boycotting the event , angry that the church allowed the consecration of a gay bishop in the United States in 2003 .

2 The head of the Anglican Church , Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams , now faces possible mutiny .

2 Williams did not invite the gay bishop at the center of the debate , the Rev. Gene Robinson of New Hampshire , in a bid to quell controversy -- but many conservative bishops have still refused to attend .

3 Although not invited , Robinson still plans to be in Canterbury during the conference .

3 ` I 'm here to go to the Lambeth Conference to talk to anyone who wants the experience of talking with someone who is both unashamedly gay and unashamedly Christian , ' Robinson said .

3 Robinson is a member of the 2.4-million-member Episcopal Church , the U.S. branch of the 80-million-member worldwide Anglican Communion , which has historic ties to the Church of England .

1 Conservative Anglican bishops decided last month to form their own movement , The Fellowship of Confessing Anglicans , to counter what they see as the liberalization of the church .
3 Many of the bishops are based in Africa , with several others also from England , the United States and Australia .

1 The row has triggered speculation about a split in the Anglican Church , the third-largest church in the world after the Roman Catholic Church and the Orthodox Church .

3 ` We ca n't change Christian truth , ' said Archbishop Greg Venables , one of the leaders of the new conservative movement .
3 ` What God has said about marriage , for example -- male , female , for life -- we ca n't change that just because the culture is changing . '

3 Venables says the church is already divided over the issue of gay clergy and that a split between liberal and conservative members is inevitable .

3 ` We do n't agree .
3 We ca n't work together .
3 -LRB- So -RRB- let 's work out a way to provide two different ways of being Anglican , ' he told CNN .

3 Many conservative Anglicans are also upset at a decision last week by the Church of England to move a step closer to ordaining women as bishops .
3 Queen Elizabeth , as reigning monarch , is the Supreme Governor of the church , although the role is largely symbolic .

3 Churches in the United States , Canada and New Zealand already allow female bishops , but the decision could see their introduction in England by 2015 .

3 Traditionalists argue that Jesus only wanted men in leadership positions .
3 Some have threatened to leave the Anglican Church for the Roman Catholic Church if women become bishops -- just as several hundred priests did when female ministers were first ordained 16 years ago .
