3 How to cast wide in recruiting - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Due to recent expansion , we are in the process of a recruitment drive .
3 But how do we ensure that we cast our nets as widely as possible to attract talent ?

3 You are right to look at your organization 's methods of attracting new staff .
2 Recent figures released by the Chartered Management Institute show that failure to understand the job-hunting habits and motivators of particular groups means that employers are missing out on key talent .

3 It 's not just about what individuals are looking for in a job offer .
1 You need to think about where potential employees are looking for jobs , and what their aspirations are so you can retain them in the longer term .

3 According to the Institute 's research , over two-thirds of managers use the Internet to look for new jobs , but just one in 10 had found their job online .
3 This indicates a clear discrepancy between employers and job seekers .
3 The research also shows that groups search for vacancies in different ways .

3 In terms of race for example , Black managers are more inclined to use press advertising , Asian managers prefer online searches , and White managers favor personal networking .
3 And senior executives with disabilities are more likely than able-bodied individuals to use professional organizations when job-hunting .

1 If , as you say , you are looking to ` cast your net at widely as possible , ' it is crucial that you are putting your organization in the same places that prospective recruits are looking .

1 As well as communicating with individuals in the right places , you need to understand the aspirations of various groups from the offset if you are going to benefit from a diverse and varied workforce .
3 Despite legislation and increasing demands for openness and transparency in both corporate and public life , many of the barriers to achieving diversity persist .

3 To attract individuals , and ensure that they stay with the organization , effort should be put into demonstrating how you as an employer are working towards overcoming these barriers so your employees can fulfil their goals .

3 How open , for example , is the performance management system ?
1 And how hierarchical is the organization , as rigid team structures can be a major stumbling block to achieving diversity ?

3 As you might expect , the Institute 's research shows that individuals from different groups have diverse ambitions in terms of their job and career .
3 For example , non-White managers seemed to have higher long-term aspirations than White managers , with 44 percent of Black and 41 percent of Asian managers aspiring to become CEOs , compared to just 16 percent of White managers .

3 With this in mind , it is important to outline a clear career path to applicants based on their hopes and aspirations .
3 Highlight the processes in place to develop employees , and how the skills they gain will be relevant to pushing them up their chosen career ladder .

3 All these factors will impact on how successful you are at attracting the best , and most diverse , talent .
3 Understanding that managers are not the same in the way they search for jobs and perceive their ambitions will give you the upper-hand in your recruitment drive .

3 Jo Causon Director , marketing and corporate affairs Chartered Management Institute 

3 The Chartered Management Institute is the only chartered professional body that is dedicated to management and leadership .
3 It is committed to raising the performance of business , supporting and advising individuals and organizations , and to help tackle the management challenges you face on a daily basis .
