2 Cricket : Still a gentleman 's game ? - CNN.com .
3 NEW DELHI , India -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- It 's 6.30 a.m. on a rainy morning in New Delhi .
3 Modern School is closed for the summer , but its sports fields are bursting with energy .
3 Around 30 boys , between the ages of seven and 17 are running around , some swinging bats in the air , others practicing their bowling .
3 They come here five days a week to attend a cricket coaching camp .
3 ` Cricket takes commitment , ' says the star student here , 17-year-old Arjun Gupta .

3 Gupta is passionate about the game .
3 He 's already representing the state of Delhi in the under-17 category .
3 He dreams of playing for his country one day .
3 His coaches , Uday Gupte and Navin Chopra say he has the talent to do that .
3 He also has the right attitude .

1 ` Cricket is played by a gentleman , ' says Gupte , adding that the sport requires tremendous discipline , both on and off the field .

1 Some question whether cricket still deserves that reputation -- after an incident on the cricket pitch in January escalated into a bitter racial row between India and Australia .

3 The incident took place during a test match in Sydney .
2 Indian player Harbhajan Singh allegedly called Australia 's Andrew Symonds ` big monkey ' -- an allegation the Indians did not take lightly .

2 The incident created unprecedented controversy in both cricket-loving countries .
3 But there was no conclusive proof that Singh racially insulted Symonds , says Chetan Chauhan , who was the manager of the Indian cricket team at that time .
3 India threatened to quit the tour if Australia found Singh guilty of racial vilification .

2 Eventually Singh pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of using abusive language .
3 The International Cricket Council overturned an initial three-test ban , replacing it with a financial penalty and the tour went on .
3 Six months later , the so called ` monkey ' incident is still a sensitive issue in India .
2 Few believe Singh said the word monkey -- and even if he did -- they doubt he meant it as a racial insult .
3 In India , the word monkey has a different context , explains Chauhan .
3 ` It 's used to describe someone who has extra energy , or is cheeky . '

3 Exactly what went on or which words were used during a heated exchange between Singh and Symonds is still unclear .
2 What the incident did , though , is turn the spotlight on ` sledging ' in cricket -- which until then , was a sport known for its tolerance and civil on-the-field behavior .
3 Should ` sledging ' be banned ?
3 Have you say 

3 ` There are two types of sledging , ' points out former cricket player , Imran Khan .
3 ` One is when in the heat of the moment players exchange hot words , swear at each other .
3 There is this other sledging that I think should be stamped out , which is pre-planned and where it 's almost clinical that somehow players plan to go and upset players by being abusive or saying things that are deeply offensive which would get a negative reaction . '
3 Watch Imran Khan discuss sledging in the sport 

3 Players , professional and amateur , admit that some form of sledging takes place on the field .
3 But cricket legend Colin Croft warns the ICC must step in when the attacks go too far .
3 ` All sportsmen at the top of the game , because they work harder , the adrenaline is pumping , they are going to try to get you off your game and sledging is I suppose intended to do that , ' he says .
3 ` But when it becomes too personal , too cultural , you 've got to be very careful and that 's where the ICC should come in and say , ` Look , if you cross a certain line you 're gonna be put out of the game . '
3 Simple as that . '

1 Cricket has its own code of conduct , says Chopra , one of the Modern School coaches , adding it 's never too early to start teaching aspiring cricketers the etiquette of the sport .
2 ` If some incident takes place , I tell my students , just avoid it .
2 Do n't answer back with your mouth .
2 Get back at them with your game . '

3 Arjun Gupta says he tries to follow that advice .
3 And that his fellow students and he live by one golden rule when playing cricket matches .
3 ` Off the field , we are friends , ' he says .

3 His coaches say that 's what makes him a gentleman .
