1 Cricket first as TV umpire rules not out - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Cricket history was made on the second day of the first Test between Sri Lanka and India as home batsman Tillakaratne Dilshan was given a reprieve by a television umpire .

1 Dilshan was initially given out by on-field umpire Mark Benson , adjudged caught behind off a Zaheer Khan delivery , but under new rules being trialled in this Test was allowed to challenge the decision through television replay .

1 Third umpire Rudi Koertzen reviewed replays and gave Dilshan not out .

1 By the close , he was 20 not out in the massive Sri Lankan total of 422 for four wickets .

3 Malinda Warnapura , Mahela Jayawardene and Thilan Samaraweera all scored tons as India toiled in Colombo , with Samaraweera 111 not out in the company of Dilshan .

3 Jayawardene , who made a superb 136 , also matched the record of former Australian cricket legend Don Bradman in scoring nine Test centuries at the same venue .

3 The Sri Lankan captain achieved his feat at the Sinhalese Sports Club ground , with Bradman 's nine tons being scored at the Melbourne Cricket Ground .

3 Earlier , during the morning session , India captain Anil Kumble made the first-ever television challenge when an appeal for leg before wicket -LRB- lbw -RRB- against Sri Lanka opener Warnapura was turned down , but he was unsuccessful in changing the original call .

3 Koertzen upheld the on-field umpire 's decision , adjudging that the ball would have missed leg stump .

3 This Test marks the beginning of the International Cricket Council 's experimentation with the challenge system .
3 Previously , the use of television technology was largely limited to run outs and stumpings , but players will now be able to challenge the likes of lbw verdicts -- the trickiest and most subjective of all umpiring decisions -- and catches .

3 Each side is allowed three challenges in each innings and the number of challenges remains intact if a decision is overturned using the system employed in professional tennis .
