1 Strauss century puts England in command - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Captain Andrew Strauss struck his 16th Test hundred to put in England in control of their must-win fourth Test against West Indies in Barbados on Thursday .

3 Strauss and Alastair Cook shared England 's first double-century opening stand for more than four years -- although once their partnership of 229 came to its conclusion minutes after tea , the runs dried up .

1 England totally dominated the first two sessions only to be pegged back by a loss of wickets in a turgid evening period , and closed on 301 for three .

1 Strauss was dismissed for 142 in spectacular manner by fast bowler Daren Powell to provide a breakthrough in the 65th over of a bat-dominated opening day .
3 A full delivery demolished Strauss ' stumps to provide Powell with some joy after much suffering .

3 Opening partner Cook then perished five overs later , six short of a hundred , when he mis-hit a pull off Jerome Taylor which was clutched by a diving Ryan Hinds at midwicket .

3 It continued Cook 's run of failing to register a Test century to 27 innings and to add to the frustration this was the 11th time he has got halfway there without converting .

3 Owais Shah returned to the Test team at Antigua with a half-century , but appeared nervous this time around and perished , after spending 47 balls over seven , when he chopped a delivery from Benn to slip .

3 The Middlesex batsman contributed to a clogging up of the scoreboard -- only 39 runs were scored in 22 overs between tea and the new ball being taken at 260 for three .

1 Meanwhile , Strauss followed his 169 in Antigua last week by celebrating his latest three-figure contribution before the halfway point of the opening day .

3 He did so in great style , hauling a delivery from spinner Sulieman Benn into the second tier of the Greenidge & Haynes stand .

2 Strauss took advantage of being dropped on 58 to reach his latest hundred from 144 deliveries -- in addition to that monstrous six he also struck 15 fours .

3 When play finally finished for the day , former captain Kevin Pietersen was unbeaten on 32 and Paul Collingwood was 11 not out .
