3 Five great spots for cross-country skiing - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Cross-country skiing is less speedy -- and therefore less intimidating -- than its steep-sloped cousin , downhill skiing .
3 It also burns more calories , as skiers glide along snowy trails and skate up inclines .

3 So , for those of you trying to stay true to your 2009 resolutions , the sport may be the perfect way to get more exercise and take in a dose of nature in the process .

3 CNN asked Ron Bergin , publisher of Cross Country Skier magazine , to recommend five places to hit the horizontal slopes .

3 Tahoe Cross Country Ski Area , Lake Tahoe , California 

3 The area around Lake Tahoe , which straddles the border between California and Nevada , is ripe with cross-country skiing opportunities .

3 So much so , said Kevin Murnane , general manager of the Tahoe Cross Country Ski Area , that ` you can spend a whole week here and ski at a different area every day . '

3 Bergin said the lakeside scenery is top-notch , as is the skier culture .
3 You likely will find buddies who will share trail stories and a drink after a long day on the trails .

1 Murnane 's ski area allows dogs on some trails and offers free lessons to help learners adjust to the balance-intensive sport .

3 Trail passes at Tahoe Cross Country Ski Area are $ 21 for adults , but ask about specials .
3 On Tuesdays , passes run $ 12 .
3 Groups and early-morning skiers also get a discount .

2 Trapp Family Lodge , Stowe , Vermont 

1 Owned by descendants of Maria von Trapp -- yes , that Trapp family , whose life inspired ` The Sound of Music ' -- the Trapp Family Lodge brings a little piece of Austria 's lively hills to the mountains of Vermont .

2 Johannes von Trapp , the real Maria 's youngest son , helped open the lodge in 1968 .
3 The family had been in the lodging business before the musical film starring Julie Andrews debuted in 1965 .

3 For Bergin , the history itself is a draw .
3 So is the fact that the luxury lodge , which still pulls off a quaint charm , is dedicated to cross-country skiing .

3 ` It 's beautiful .
3 It backs up to the mountains and you 've got a great view of a lot of trails , ' Bergin said .

3 The lodge offers a range of promotions , from wine-and-dine packages to those geared toward ` winter wellness . '

3 The lodge offers rooms and chalets ranging from $ 275 to $ 475 per night .
3 Go for the two-night package and you 'll get ski rentals , breakfast , dinner and lodging for both days for $ 500 per person .

3 Methow Valley , Winthrop , Washington 

3 Northeast of Seattle in the Cascade Mountains , nearly 125 miles of ski trails connect the villages of Methow Valley .
3 It 's almost as if cross-country skiing becomes a form of transportation in and around the area , Bergin said .

3 While the linear path is ` not a typical layout ' compared to most cross-country loops , Bergin said the trails offer a sense of adventure and exploration .

3 At one end , you 'll find The Sun Mountain Lodge , which is the area 's luxurious gem .
3 But the valley also has hangouts for the Bohemian traveler : The Old Schoolhouse Brewery sells $ 4 pints in a smart red building and the local food cooperative offers organic smoothies and sandwiches .

3 Trail passes run $ 20 for adults and $ 10 for teens ages 13 to 17 .

3 Stokely Creek Lodge , Goulais River , Ontario , Canada 

2 Located in Ontario , Canada , north of Michigan 's Upper Peninsula , this remote lodge gives skiers a serene escape from the bustle of everyday life .

1 ` You ski away from the lodge and immediately you feel like you 're out in the wilderness , ' Bergin said .
3 ` All of a sudden , you 're just transported from the day-to-day . '

3 The natural scenery -- more than 12 square miles of it -- is varied and always exciting , he said .
3 Around some curves , skiers will find a cold creek .
3 Other areas are known for hills or lakes that seem like they 're in the middle of nowhere .

3 The lodge offers $ 15 day passes for groups of ten or more ; kids 18 and younger pay $ 10 and adult passes are $ 18 .
3 For the full treatment , though , two adults can stay the night at rates ranging from $ 98 to $ 170 .
3 That includes two ski passes and three meals , which , according to lodge manager Jamie Martin , are almost as big a hit as the skiing .
3 The kitchen serves highbrow treats like filet mignon and Cornish hen , he said .

3 Cable Area , Cable , Wisconsin 

3 Northern Wisconsin is proof that you do n't need huge mountains for good skiing .

3 The Cable Area -- which includes the towns of Cable , Drummond , Namakagon and Grand View -- boasts one of the world 's biggest cross-country ski races and is regarded by some as the birthplace for the sport in North America , Bergin said .

3 Bergin , who lives in the area , called the Cable Area the ` Mecca ' for cross-country skiing in the region .

3 ` Within the radius of an hour 's drive , you could probably find 30 or 40 trail systems of all sizes and shapes , ' he said .
3 ` There 's quite a skiing culture . '

3 The Telemark Resort offers trail passes that are cheaper than most : $ 11 per day .
3 Lodging at the resort ranges from $ 79 for a room in the lodge to $ 275 for a 1,000-square-foot condo , said Darrell Buchmann , the resort 's general manager .
