1 Sprint king Cavendish claims fourth Tour win - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- British sprint sensation Mark Cavendish claimed his fourth stage victory at the drug-tainted Tour de France on Friday as he snatched the 13th leg from Narbonne to Nimes .

3 Cavendish became only the second British cyclist to win back-to-back stages in the prestigious event as he sneaked past veteran Australian Robbie McEwen in the 182-kilometer -LRB- 113.1-mile -RRB- trek , clocking four hours , 25 minutes , 42 seconds .

3 He is only the second sprinter in the last 10 years to win four stages in the same Tour de France , the other being Alessandro Petacchi in 2003 .

1 McEwen 's compatriot Cadel Evans retained the overall lead after finishing alongside his closest rivals in the main peloton .
3 He holds a one-second lead over Frank Schleck of Luxembourg and is 38 seconds ahead of U.S. rider Christian Vande Velde in third .

3 Cavendish 's victory came after the Saunier Duval team fired Italian rider Riccardo Ricco , winner of the sixth and ninth stages , and his compatriot Leonardo Piepoli .

3 Ricco was removed from the race Thursday after testing positive for an advanced version of banned blood booster EPO .
3 Piepoli did not test positive , but the team said he breached its code of ethics .

2 Despite his heroics , Cavendish lies well off the pace in the overall standings .
1 The Columbia team rider was left 144th out of 158 competitors -- one hour and 52 minutes behind Evans .

3 The 23-year-old told BBC Radio 5 Live : ` I only planned to do 10 days of the Giro de Paris but finished it and now I 'm 13 days into the Tour not feeling too tired - I 'll take every day as it comes and see how far I can get . '

3 However , Cavendish -- who comes from the Isle of Man -- was unsure if he would will stay in the Tour through the Alps in order to challenge for a fifth win on the Champs-Elysees , or whether he would withdraw to prepare for the Beijing Olympics .

1 He still trails green jersey points leader Oscar Freire of the Rabobank team by 28 points , lying second equal with Credit Agricole 's Thor Hushovd .

3 ` It was a real battle out there , but somehow I 'm still no closer to the green jersey , ' Cavendish added on Eurosport .
3 ` I do n't know what I have to do !

3 ` It just proves that you have to be ultra-consistent to win the points competition .
3 I was tired , but ever since I was 13 I 've shown that if there 's a win up for grabs , I forget everything and motor .

3 ` Again the lead-out was perfect , the real hard work was done for me .
3 The conditions were supposed to be kind , but when we reached Nimes there was a real block headwind .
3 It did n't feel like my most comfortable win . '
