3 Rabbit ears get reprieve with digital TV delay - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- American TV viewers have four extra months to get ready for the day their local stations shut down their analog transmitters , thanks to a delay in the digital TV transition approved by Congress Wednesday .

1 The House , by a vote of 264 to 158 , passed a Senate bill that would reset the death of analog TV to June 12 , a measure President Barack Obama is expected to sign .

1 An estimated 6.5 million homes -- including many elderly , poor and disabled Americans -- would lose TV service after February 17 without the delay , supporters argued .

3 People who pay for cable or satellite TV service will be unaffected by the change .

3 The delay was opposed by Republicans who said the government has already given people years to prepare for the switch to digital TV .

3 ` If you do n't know this date is coming up , you 're probably not watching television , ' said Rep. Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican .
3 ` And if you 're not watching television , you probably wo n't know on February 18 whether it occurred or not . '

3 The Commerce Department ran out of money last month for its program to help people pay for converter boxes needed to make older TVs receive the new digital signals .
3 There are 3.7 million homes on the waiting list for the $ 40 coupons , said Rep. Rick Boucher , a Virginia Democrat .

3 ` It 's clear that the only way to avoid a massive disruption affecting 5.7 percent of the TV viewing public is to delay the transition and provide the funding to assure that , when it occurs , it occurs smoothly , ' he said .

3 Federal Communication Commission acting Chairman Michael Copps said the delay gives the government ` an opportunity to do it better . '

3 ` The additional four months provided by the law affords urgently needed time for a more phased transition , including a consumer-friendly converter box coupon program , stepped-up consumer outreach and support -- particularly for vulnerable populations -- and dealing with coverage , antenna and reception issues that went too long unaddressed , ' Copps said .

3 He had sent a letter to Congress last month ` to express our deep concern ' that the FCC was ` nowhere near ' ready for the deadline ` to pull the plug on television service in millions of American homes . '

3 The Federal government raked in $ 20 billion by selling licenses for the frequencies being vacated by local television stations for other commercial uses .

3 Some of the frequencies were also reserved for emergency agencies to use for communications .

3 Republicans said the delay would prevent some emergency agencies from using their new communications systems .

3 Rep. Anthony Weiner , a Democrat from New York , said having a working TV is also important for the safety of those with older sets .

3 ` They are going to lose the most important connection to the outside world and emergency response -- the television , ' he said .

3 Opponents noted the new date for the end of analog TV will come just as the hurricane season begins .
3 Forcing conversion in February would be safer , they said .

3 All local stations will eventually pull the plug on the analog transmitters they 've used since the invention of television .
3 The stations have begun digital broadcasts over the past several years .
