3 Solar power heats up energy possibilities - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Just west of Seville in Spain , a sea of giant mirrors is reflecting the sun 's energy to provide ` concentrated solar power ' -LRB- CSP -RRB- while illuminating the path to a new wave of green energy projects .

3 The 624 carefully positioned mirrors reflect the sun 's heat towards a 50 meter-tall central tower where it is concentrated and used to boil water into steam .

3 The superheated steam is then used to turn a turbine that can produce up to 11 megawatts of electricity -- enough power for 6,000 homes -- according Solucar , the Spanish company that has built the power plant .

3 While traditional solar panels , photovoltaic cells , convert the sun 's power directly into electricity , CSP focuses power from a wide area and uses the vast heat generated to make electricity in a similar way to that produced from coal or oil .

3 The Spanish tower , known as PS10 , is the first phase of an ambitious development .
3 By 2013 it is hoped that additional towers will create a ` solar farm ' with an output of 300 megawatts , which would be enough power for 180,000 homes , or equivalent to the entire population of nearby Seville .

3 This $ 1.5 billion project is the largest commercial CSP station in the world -- so far .

1 But many believe the technology will soon take off in areas of continuous hot sun and clear skies , offering a cheaper and more efficient alternative to photovoltaic cells , and bringing jobs and money to arid , often depressed areas .

3 CSP also produces no greenhouses gasses and the only pollution is visual .
3 The European Union has invested over $ 31 million in CSP research over the last ten years .

3 At least 50 CSP projects have been given permission to begin construction across Spain .
3 By 2015 the country may be producing two gigawatts of electricity from CSP , and employing thousands in the industry .

3 One of the strengths of CSP is that it allows the construction of power stations on a scale that can match many fossil fuel based plants , and for an investment far less than that required to install the equivalent wattage of photovoltaic cells .

3 There is also the possibility that production can keep going around the clock -- even when the sun has gone down .

3 Solucar is currently testing technology at a plant near Granada that will pump 50 percent of the electricity generated in the day into the Spanish national grid , and use the other 50 percent to melt salt , which will then act as a kind of battery , storing the sun 's power .
3 When dusk falls , the heat stored in the molten salt can be used to generate power through the night .

3 ` These technologies excite me , ' says Dr Jeff Hardy , Network Manager at the UK Energy Research Council .

3 ` One of the real advantages is that you can get a decent sized power plant .

3 ` The main challenge with the technology is working with extreme heat , but then a lot of the back-end is very similar to a traditional fossil-fuel generation ; you are after all just dealing with water heated to make steam and drive a turbine . '

3 Concentrating on promoting CSP worldwide 

3 As America looks to increase the contribution of renewables to its overall energy mix -- a key part of the Obama plan before the recession turbocharged Government funding for such ` green ' infrastructure projects -- the potential of CSP technology is obvious .

3 The Spanish company responsible for the Sanlucar la Mayor plant has seen the potential and created Solucar Power , Inc. , a subsidiary aiming to develop the market in the USA .

3 There is already a huge Solar Energy Generating Systems ' CSP station in the Mojave Desert , California ; Spanish firm Acciona has built a plant near Las Vegas .
2 Many more are surely on their way .

2 One bold projection estimates that a single plant 100 miles by 100 miles located in the American South West could generate enough electricity for the whole country .

2 It would obviously be a huge undertaking -- politically , financially and scientifically -- but it 's not hard to imagine such a scheme finding a home in the nation 's vast , empty quarter .

1 Other equally arid areas may also find themselves transformed , and CSP may be able to offer valuable foreign earnings for drought-stricken Africa -- while giving Europe the green energy it needs .
3 According to Dr Hardy the technology has a ready application , given the right political , environmental and economic context .

3 ` Concentrated Solar Power is proven to do well in countries like Spain with a favorable government policies and the right climate , ' he says .

1 ` I can certainly see the potential for extended networks linking together , and the idea of a North African grid linking renewable resources is a real possibility . '

3 Providing power , jobs and money 

3 The Sahara , the world 's largest desert , is fringed by some of the poorest countries in the world and the harsh environment has always been seen as a problem , with it 's vast , waterless interior regularly reaching temperatures of over 45 degrees Celsius .

1 But with large-scale CSP projects , suddenly all that empty space , with its year-round clear skies and hot sun , has a value that could transform local economies .
2 It could potentially turn Africa into a net exporter of energy to power-hungry Europe , and perhaps even do for countries in North Africa what oil did for Saudi Arabia .

3 The sums are dizzying .
3 Estimates vary , but one projection from the German Aerospace Agency puts the amount of solar energy stored in just one per cent of the Sahara -- 35,000 square miles , or a piece of land slightly smaller than Portugal -- as having the potential to yield more power than all the world 's existing power plants combined .

3 Already Spanish firms are exporting CSP technology to Morocco and Algeria , and a British consortium , the Sahara Forest Project , is testing the technology in the deserts of Oman .
3 Costs and benefits 

1 However , there is a problem : at the moment costs are still very high .
3 But they are falling as plants get bigger , the technology is perfected and economies of scale kick in .

1 Even so , any plans to power Europe from the Sahara would require a vast infrastructure of CSP plants and cables laid across the Mediterranean -- requiring billions upon billions of dollars in investment .

3 Such sums will only be possible through international co-operation on a huge scale .
1 But on a smaller , more local scale a simple change in the way electricity generators are paid has been hugely effective in boosting renewable power .

3 In Spain and other European countries investment has been encouraged by Governments creating what 's known as a ` feed in tariff , ' which pays companies a premium for power sold to the national grid generated by renewable means for a fixed period of time .
3 This enables investors to pay back up front costs more quickly .

3 Where they have been introduced they have brought about a huge increase in renewable power : Germany has 200 times as much solar energy as Britain , generates 12 percent of its electricity from renewables , and has created a quarter of a million jobs in the sector .

3 We 're a long way from a future where the Sahara becomes the world 's largest source of renewable electricity , and the American South West is covered in mirrors lighting and powering cities across the continent .

3 There are many huge issues yet to resolve , but with small steps , we may be moving towards it .
