2 Budget concerns force states to reconsider the death penalty - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Brian Sanderholm thinks Justin Thurber deserves to die for raping and killing his 19-year-old daughter .

3 ` I believe in an eye for an eye .
3 If you do the crime , you need to have justice , ' he said .
3 ` In the end , it 's up to the jury , but all that matters is that he ca n't hurt anyone again . '

3 But amid a time of economic turmoil some legislators in Kansas and elsewhere say the price of justice is too high .
2 They have introduced legislation to take the death penalty off the books over financial concerns .

3 Jodi Sanderholm was last seen alive on January 5 , 2007 , at dance practice at Cowley College in Arkansas City , Kansas , where she was a student and member of the Cowley College Tigerettes Danceline .
3 Her bruised and battered body was found four days later in a pile of brush , bearing signs of a violent and prolonged death that prosecutors likened to torture .

3 A jury sentenced Thurber to death on February 18 .
3 A Kansas court will decide whether to uphold the jury 's verdict in a hearing scheduled for March 20 .

3 If Kansas Senate Bill 208 passes as written , it wo n't take effect until July 1 , so it is unlikely to affect Thurber 's sentence .
3 But future savings could be substantial .

3 ` Because of the downturn in the national economy , we are facing one of the largest budget deficits in our history , ' state Sen. Carolyn McGinn , a Republican , said in an opinion piece posted on TheKansan.com Friday .
3 ` What is certain is we are all going to have to look at new and creative ways to fund state and community programs and services . '

2 The state would save more than $ 500,000 per case by not seeking the death penalty , McGinn wrote , money that could be used for ` prevention programs , community corrections and other programs to decrease future crimes against society . '

3 Fiscal concerns are just a part of McGinn 's argument .
3 She has also cited the disproportionate rate of minorities that are sentenced to death .
3 Kansas reintroduced the death penalty in 1994 but has not executed a condemned inmate since 1965 .

3 Anti-death-penalty groups say longer jury selection , extra expert witnesses , jury consultants and an extended penalty phase tend to make death penalty trials more costly than non-death-penalty cases .
3 Extra safeguards in place to ensure a fair verdict , including additional investigators and defense attorneys certified to handle death cases , who spend more time researching and litigating the case , also drive up costs .
3 See a chart comparing the costs of two murder trials 

3 A 2008 study by the Urban Institute , an economic and social policy research group based in Maryland , found that an average capital murder trial in the state resulting in a death sentence costs about $ 3 million , or $ 1.9 million more than a case where the death penalty is not sought .

3 A similar 2008 study by the ACLU in Northern California found that a death - penalty trial costs about $ 1.1 million more than a non-death-penalty trial in California .

3 McGinn 's bill faces opposition from various sides , including victims ' rights groups and the state 's top prosecutor , who says there are no hard numbers related to the cost of the death penalty .

2 New Mexico , which also has a bill before the Legislature to abolish the death penalty , has already seen a case where costs dictated the outcome .
3 See which states have bills to get rid of the death penalty 

2 Last year , the New Mexico attorney general 's office agreed to drop the death penalty for two inmates involved in the stabbing death of a guard , Ralph Garcia , during a 1999 riot at the Guadalupe County Correctional Facility .

2 The change came after the state Legislature failed to provide additional funding for defense attorneys contracted to handle the case by the public defender 's office .

3 In court documents filed at the time , Attorney General Gary King said his office could not ` in good faith under these circumstances ' pursue the death penalty against Robert Young and Reis Lopez .

3 Even Garcia 's wife lent her voice to the case , writing a letter to then-Assistant Attorney General Michael Fox explaining why she did not support the death penalty .

3 ` I would rather see the death penalty be abolished and reparation be made to the victims , wives or husbands and to their children .
3 I know how hard it is to go look for a job when my job was staying home and taking care of the home and kids and my husband was the breadwinner , ' Rachel Garcia wrote in a letter dated February 28 , 2005 .

3 ` My husband would -LRB- have -RRB- wanted something like this as much as I do because he so much loved his family . '

3 Her sentiments became part a bill to abolish the death penalty that was introduced in 2007 and died on the Senate floor in New Mexico .
2 Its supporters are hopeful it has a better chance this year -- so far , it has passed the House of Representatives and is awaiting action in the Senate .

3 ` I think it helps the debate from being less emotional than it has the potential to be , ' Democratic Rep. Gail Chasey said .
3 ` People will say we ca n't put a price on justice , but in fact , we do put a price on justice when we are not able to give our district attorneys , our police departments , our attorney general the funding they need . '

1 In Colorado , House Bill 1274 proposes to put the anticipated savings from abolishing the death penalty toward the Colorado Bureau of Investigation 's cold case homicide team .

3 The state has about 1,430 unsolved homicides dating back to 1970 , according to Howard Morton , founder of the Families of Homicide Victims and Missing Persons , an advocacy group pushing for the bill .

3 For Morton , whose son , Guy , disappeared in 1975 , the issue goes beyond the misuse of tax dollars .
3 Guy was considered a missing person for 12 years until forensic examination revealed that his remains had been misidentified .
3 His killer was never found .

3 ` As bad as it is to think that our son 's killer is still on the streets or in our neighborhoods , there 's nothing worse than feeling like he 's been forgotten , just another file in a basement , ' he said .
3 ` Once you 've had a loved one murdered , there can be no closure , but there can be resolution , the feeling like , oh well , at least justice was done . '

1 Kansas , New Mexico and Colorado , among the states where legislators are seeking to get rid of the death penalty , have carried out few or no executions since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated capital punishment in 1976 .
3 On the other hand , Texas , Georgia and Virginia , which consistently lead the nation in executions each year , show no signs of changing course .

3 Earlier this month , Virginia 's House voted to expand capital punishment to include those who assist in a murder , and those who kill an auxiliary police officer or on-duty fire marshal .

1 A bill to abolish the death penalty is also before the Texas legislature , but Harris County District Attorney Pat Lykos intends to proceed with 194 pending death penalty cases she has on the books .

3 ` We will spare no expense .
3 We will go after them .
3 Justice has no price tag , ' Lykos said .
3 ` We want to be as cost-effective as possible without compromising the administration of justice and public safety . '

2 Nonetheless , budget concerns in those states still hamper some efforts to seek the death penalty .

3 In Georgia , where Gov. Sonny Perdue has ordered all government agencies to trim their budgets by 6 percent , Jamie Ryan Weis , on trial for murder , has been sitting in a jail without a lawyer for more than a year .

3 The Georgia Public Defender Standards Council appointed two private attorneys in 2006 to represent Weis , who is charged with the murder of Catherine King .
3 They were pulled from the case a year later because of a lack of funds , court documents indicate , and the Georgia Public Defender Standards Council has yet to replace them .

3 ` The state basically says we want to have the death penalty and we do n't want to pay for it .
3 It 's like the state says it 's going to the grocery store to buy the most expensive food and it 's not going to pay for it , ' said attorney Don Samuel , one of three attorneys attempting to obtain a lawyer for Weis .

3 Griffin Judicial Circuit District Attorney Scott Ballard said he plans to seek the death penalty against Weis , no matter how long it takes or how much it costs .

3 ` I think that if you start deciding it 's too expensive to pursue the death penalty , then you 're encouraging the defense to make it too expensive , and our duty to the public is too great to succumb to that , ' Ballard said .

3 Back in Kansas , Brian Sanderholm says the state has a duty to victims , too .
3 He opposes efforts to abolish the death penalty because he says families should be able to weigh in on an appropriate punishment , and juries should render the final outcome .

3 In fact , if Thurber had admitted sooner to having killed his daughter , the father says he would have accepted a life sentence for him .
3 But by the time Thurber decided to admit his role and seek a plea deal with prosecutors , his family had already been through too much , Sanderholm says .

3 ` It was too late , ' Sanderholm said .
3 ` We 'd struggled so much , but after struggling for two years , we decided we 're just going to go on with it . '
