3 Will the recession change movies ? - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Movie ticket sales are way up in this down economy .

3 Seem counterintuitive ?

1 Observers say struggling people are looking for a $ 10 , two-hour escape .

2 ` The movies offer a way to go not only outside of your house , but to a whole different world -- and that 's very appealing right now , ' said Paul Dergarabedian , a box office analyst at Hollywood.com .

2 Audiences are going along for that ride in record numbers .
2 Gross movie ticket sales to this weekend were up 18.8 percent over the same period last year , to $ 1.66 billion , according to BoxOfficeMojo.com .
2 Box offices saw their best January in history this year , with more than $ 1 billion in gross sales .

3 Jeremy Kay , a blogger for the UK newspaper The Guardian , used that news to predict that this will be the biggest year for ticket earnings in the history of Hollywood .

3 ` If you look at what 's coming up over the next 10 months it seems reasonable to assume this year will be the biggest we 've seen , ' he wrote on the site 's film blog .

3 Analysts say the recession also is likely to affect the types of movies being made by Hollywood , how they 're made and what will succeed .

3 Based on recent successes , there 's evidence to suggest studios will continue to focus on comedies and action films .

2 Of the top five top-grossing movies of 2009 , three -- ` Mall Cop , ' ` He 's Just Not That into You ' and ` Bride Wars ' -- are comedies .
3 One , ` Hotel for Dogs , ' is a family movie , and ` Taken , ' so far the No. 2 film in terms of sales , is an action film about a kidnapping .
2 And films such as ` Mall Cop ' are winning big with viewers despite some scorn from critics .
2 The film , which stars Kevin James as a crime-fighting , Segway-riding security guard , is so far the No. 1 grossing film of the year , with an estimated $ 121.4 million in sales since it opened in mid-January .

3 ` You lose where you are ' 

3 But films like ` Mall Cop ' could succeed in any financial climate , said Jeanine Basinger , a film historian and chairwoman of the film studies department at Wesleyan University in Connecticut .

3 People always have turned to movies during hard times , Basinger said , but it 's oversimplifying to say light or funny narratives will succeed in a recession and serious subject matter wo n't .

3 ` Films are a good form of entertainment during a recession because you can sit back and -- sad or happy -- you lose where you are and you go into the movie , ' she said .

3 It 's also difficult to say whether certain types of films will be made because of the recession , she said .
3 It can take years for a movie to make it from studio approval to theaters -- and in that time , a lot can change .

3 There 's no better recent example of this than ` Confessions of a Shopaholic , ' Dergarabedian said .

3 The movie was based on a successful series of books , the first of which came out in 2000 , at the height of the dot-com boom .
3 But the film -- with a trailer that shows a spendthrift young woman piling up credit card debt until her card is declined at a high-end boutique -- opened with a disappointing $ 15.07 million on Presidents Day weekend .

3 The film did n't work because it hit too close to home with viewers , Dergarabedian said .

3 He says only movies that turn away from financial realities will succeed during the recession .
1 His case in point : ` Friday the 13th , ' a slasher remake , earned a gross $ 40.57 million the same weekend ` Confessions of a Shopaholic ' debuted , according to BoxOfficeMojo.com .

3 ` If Jason is scaring the crap out of you , you ca n't really be thinking about your mortgage , you know ? ' Dergarabedian said .

3 Going to ` serious downer movies ' 

3 Basinger disagrees .
3 During the Great Depression and World War II , films were true to current events and succeeded with viewers , she said .

3 People sought escapist fare during those times , she said , but they also ` went to serious downer movies about the situation they were in , too , because they were trying to understand them . '

3 Other analysts look further back into history for evidence that hard times could stir up creativity in the film industry .

3 In the same way the Great Depression sparked creativity and influenced the Golden Age of film , today 's filmmakers may use hard times for inspiration , said Erin Trahan , managing editor at The Independent magazine , which covers the indie film industry .

3 ` There may be a burst of quality of products , in a way , ' she said .
3 ` Anytime there 's financial stress , people become more creative . '

3 The cost of making films is down , she said , which may lead to some ambitious projects .
3 But , she added , people who already have made films may have a hard time getting them distributed .

3 ` Depression proof ' 

3 But Gerald Peary , a documentary filmmaker and critic in Boston , Massachusetts , said the recession means fewer movies will be made .

3 ` It 's a romantic myth that having no money is good for movie making , ' he said .

1 Peary said the recession will kick off an era of stupid movies -- since those are the ones that are sure to succeed with downtrodden audiences on smaller budgets .

3 ` The dumber the movie is , sometimes , the more money it makes , ' he said .
3 ` Those movies are somehow both critic proof and depression proof . '

3 Basinger , the film historian , said it 's too soon to identify any firm trends involving movies and the recession besides the fact that more people will go to see them .
3 Where they 'll see them is up for debate .
3 The venue may be the theater , it may be on a cell phone , she said .

3 The recession , she added , is likely to speed up changes in the way people view and create films .
3 It 's a healthy process , she said .

3 ` The history of the motion picture is a history of constantly shifting venues ; and here 's what happens : Film never dies , it keeps going , ' she said .

3 But she still sees the movie theater experience as the cheapest and fullest way to abandon your troubles and lose yourself in a story .

3 ` Movies are a great form of escape because you enter a darkened place and surrender to something that 's bigger than you , ' she said .

3 Warner Bros. , maker of ` Friday the 13th , ' is owned by Time Warner , which is the parent company of CNN .
