3 Octuplets : Eight times the ethical questions - CNN.com .
2 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- As more details of the mother who gave birth to octuplets come to light , ethicists are debating the moral quandaries involved .

3 The woman had six other children before the set of eight , which were only the second set of octuplets recorded in the U.S. The babies ' grandfather said Friday that his daughter wanted one more child and did n't expect this to happen .

1 Kaiser Permanente 's Bellflower Medical Center reports that all is well with the mother and children .
3 Seven babies are breathing unassisted , and one is receiving assisted oxygen through a tube in the nose .
3 Seven are being tube-fed donated breast milk .

3 It is unclear how this woman ended up with eight embryos in the first place .

3 Her mother told the Los Angeles Times on Thursday that the woman had received fertility treatment and that she had embryos implanted last year .

2 ` If she went to a fertility clinic , there 's wide consensus from every single ethicist and fertility specialist that this was irresponsible and unethical to implant that many embryos , ' said M. Sara Rosenthal , bioethicist at the University of Kentucky 's College of Medicine .
1 ` This is an outrageous situation that should not happen . '

3 Doctors say that giving birth to extreme multiples comes with tremendous risks for both the mother and the babies .
3 Risks for the children include bleeding in the brain , intestinal problems , developmental delays and lifelong learning disabilities .

3 In certain European countries , particularly Italy and Germany , the limit on the number of embryos allowed to be implanted at once is three , said Robert George , professor at Princeton University and member of the U.S. President 's Council on Bioethics .
3 George advocated following those countries ' examples so that similar situations do n't arise and put the lives of mother and fetuses at risk .

3 ` What you need are professional norms and legal regulations that restrict practices that are inherently very dangerous , ' he said .

3 The woman 's mother told the Los Angeles Times that doctors gave the woman the option of selectively reducing the number of embryos , and she refused .

3 As to a ` correct ' decision at this stage , experts are split .

3 George said that , based on the information available , his personal ethical decision would probably support the woman 's choice to carry all the babies to term .
3 But he said that selective reduction is not the same as traditional abortion because the goal is the healthiest possible birth rather than the termination of a pregnancy .

3 ` The babies did n't put themselves there ; it 's not their fault , ' George said .
3 ` There does seem to be a serious ethical question about killing one or more of them , even for the sake of maternal health . '

3 Rosenthal , on the other hand , questions the woman 's capacity to make a good decision under the circumstances .
3 Some neonatologists believe that when pregnant women are told about dangers of prematurity or have great expectations about giving birth , their judgment can be impaired , she said .

3 The situation raises the issue of whether a doctor ought to override a patient 's wishes for the sake of saving lives , she said .
3 Although the health care system in America gives patients autonomy in making decisions about their own bodies , when emotionally distraught , some people decide poorly , she said .

3 A doctor counseling a woman with octuplets may strongly recommend partial or full termination because of the risks to the mother and children .
3 Even with triplets , a doctor would be ` remiss if -LRB- he -RRB- did n't tell a woman with triplets about selective fetal reduction , ' said Dr. Scott Slayden of Reproductive Biology Associates in Atlanta , Georgia .

3 Dr. R. Dale McClure , president of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine , said in a statement Friday that the organization has been working to reduce the number of high-order multiple births resulting from in vitro fertilization treatments .

3 ` If this resulted from an IVF treatment , we can say that transferring eight embryos in an IVF cycle is well beyond our guidelines , ' he said .

1 The guidelines state that patients under the age of 35 would not have more than two embryos implanted ` in the absence of extraordinary circumstances . '
2 In fact , a woman in this age group with a favorable prognosis should have only one embryo transferred , the guidelines say .

3 The mother of the octuplets is believed to be 33 years old , according to the Los Angeles Times .

3 ` It would be extremely unusual , very strange and hard to believe that somebody who is a professional would put that many embryos into a woman who is 33 years old who has children , ' Slayden said .

3 That she carried eight fetuses does not necessarily mean eight embryos were implanted , Slayden said .
3 Four to 5 percent of the time , an embryo will split .
3 As few as five embryos could have given rise to the eight children , he said .

2 Although it is ` amazing ' that the mother and eight children appear to be healthy , the story is somewhat dangerous for would-be mothers seeking fertility treatment , he said .
3 They may see this example as a reason to take chances in attempting to birth extreme multiples , despite the large risks involved in such pregnancies and the rarity of their success .
3 The nanny who works with the octuplets ' siblings said Friday that the woman ` adores her babies ' and is ` a perfect mom . '
