3 What 's new and evolving in England and Ireland - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- Tribune Media Services -RRB- -- Jolly olde England and the Emerald Isle of Ireland continue to enchant and entice , even with the pound whomping the dollar nearly two to one .
3 Here 's what to expect if you visit in 2008 .

3 England .
3 For longer visits to London , you 'll save time and money getting around on the Tube -LRB- London 's underground -RRB- and city buses with an Oyster Card .
3 You buy this plastic transit card for a small fee and then enjoy discounted rides -- reloading for more credit as necessary .

3 The Heathrow Express train connecting London 's Paddington Station with Heathrow Airport is now the most expensive rail journey per mile in Britain .
3 Save money by riding the Tube or using the regular train .

3 Those going to the Continent -LRB- under the English Channel -RRB- on the Eurostar bullet train will enjoy an even faster trip on a faster track .
3 The train now departs from London 's St. Pancras International Station -LRB- no longer the Waterloo Station -RRB- .

1 The London Transport Museum reopened in November .
3 Whether you 're cursing or marveling at the buses and Tube , this fascinating history of London 's public transportation system is a delight .

1 The British Museum 's Reading Room , normally free and open to the quiet public , will instead host special exhibitions -LRB- on Chinese Terracotta Warriors through early April , and Roman Emperor Hadrian from late July through October -RRB- , requiring a separate entry fee .
3 The vast museum itself remains free .

3 The British Library , also free , will undergo an extensive reorganization in 2008 .
3 In particular , one of the original Magna Carta documents and the only existing medieval manuscript of ` Beowulf ' will be off display for much of the year .

3 There will be no organ recitals at St. Paul 's Cathedral in 2008 or 2009 as its organ will be under restoration .

3 Public places in England and the rest of Great Britain are now smoke-free , including hotels , B&B s , restaurants and even pubs .
3 Expect places that sell food to be non-smoking indoors , with smokers occupying outdoor patios and doorways .

3 Save money on local calls by picking up an inexpensive English mobile phone -LRB- which can be as low as 20 pounds for a phone complete with a SIM card and some minutes -RRB- , particularly if you 're staying at B&B s , which rarely have in-room phones .

3 Bath 's new Thermae Bath Spa -- which finally opened after years of delays -- is already popular with locals and tourists alike .
3 Consider an evening visit -LRB- last entry is 7:45 p.m. -RRB- , when the crowds thin out and the town twinkles from the rooftop pool deck .

3 Stonehenge , long famous as a highway drive-by sight , is planning a major , gradual renovation over the next several years .
3 The plans are to divert the busy road farther from the site and build a new , low-profile visitors center to recapture the stone circle 's alone-in-a-field aura .

3 Blenheim Palace has a new multimedia exhibit called the ` Untold Story ' -- 300 years of history told by a maid named Grace Ridley .
3 While interesting , the palace 's Churchill exhibit should remain your first priority .

3 Stratford-upon-Avon is sharing the limelight with another Stratford -LRB- an area just outside of London by the same name -RRB- , which is the location of the 2012 Olympics .
3 -LRB- To avoid confusion , use Stratford-upon-Avon 's full name when buying train tickets . -RRB-
3 In Stratford-upon-Avon , the Royal Shakespeare Company has closed its Globe and Swan theaters for renovation and is using the Courtyard Theater as its main stage .
3 The thrust-design Courtyard Theater is the prototype for the in-the-works theaters , scheduled to reopen in 2010 .

3 Ireland and Northern Ireland 
1 There 's a new visitors center at the Cliffs of Moher .
3 After years of easy access to the cliffs , numerous fatal accidents -LRB- and suicides -RRB- prompted the hiring of ` rangers , ' whose main purpose is to keep people from getting too close to the cliff edge .
3 The upside : They lead guided tours several times a day in the summer .

3 In Galway , the Siamsa folk theater , which featured Irish music , singing and dancing -- including the step dancing popularized by Riverdance -- will be closed in 2008 -LRB- and may not reopen after that -RRB- .
3 Sadly , in Kilronan on Inishmore Island , the Ragus Irish song and dance group is also no longer performing .

3 The British Army has finally pulled out of Northern Ireland , after 38 years mired in the ` Troubles , ' which is a healthy sign that the region 's worst days are in the past and tourism will no longer be such a tough sell in Ulster .
3 As if to celebrate , Belfast has opened a 196-foot-high Ferris wheel , similar to the London Eye .
3 It will spin crowds of tourists -LRB- paying $ 12 for the 15-minute trip -RRB- throughout 2008 .

3 A visit to England and Ireland in 2008 will be expensive , but an ever-evolving lineup of sights is keeping these two countries on the must-see list for travelers .
3 E-mail to a friend
