1 Cech signs new five-year deal at Chelsea - CNN.com .
1 LONDON , England -LRB- AP -RRB- -- Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech has signed a new five-year contract to keep him at the club until 2013 .

3 The Czech Republic international agreed to the deal last week and it was announced when the Blues arrived in Guangzhou , China , at the start of its offseason tour of Asia on Monday .

3 ` I am very happy to have renewed my contract with them , ' Cech said .

3 ` Chelsea has grown in my heart , not just because of my teammates and all the people that work for the club , but also because of their fantastic fans . '

1 The 26-year-old Cech has made 115 appearances for Chelsea since joining from French club Rennes in 2004 .

3 Cech won consecutive Premier League titles in his first two seasons , but he still wears head protection during matches after fracturing his skull at Reading in 2006 .

3 He was also sidelined several times with injuries last season as Chelsea finished runner-up in the Premier League , Champions League and League Cup .

3 ` I have to say , I can not wait for the new season to start , ' Cech said .
3 ` I am confident that it will be a very successful season for all of us . '

3 New Chelsea coach Luiz Felipe Scolari , who took charge earlier this month , is pleased to have secured Cech on a long-term deal .

3 ` He is the best goalkeeper in the world , so I am very pleased that he will remain with me at Chelsea , ' Scolari said .

3 Cech was blamed after the Czech Republic 's exit from the European Championship last month .

3 The Czechs blew a two-goal lead against Turkey in their last group match by conceding three goals in the final 15 minutes .
3 Cech dropped a simple cross in the 87th minute to allow Turkey to level at 2-2 , before letting in another goal .

3 French club Paris St Germain announced on Monday that they had signed Chelsea 's former French international midfielder Claud Makelele .

3 PSG revealed on their Web site that the player would be presented at a press conference later in the day , after the two clubs had settled terms over the weekend .

3 Makelele moved to Chelsea from Real Madrid in 2003 and won two Premier League titles with the London side , who are reported to have freed him from the final year of his contract .

3 Makelele will join Ludovic Giuly from AS Roma as one of PSG 's big name summer captures .
3 They have also brought in Guillaume Hoarau from Le Havre and Stephane Sessegnon from Le Mans .
