1 Hamilton sets pace in German GP practice - CNN.com .
1 HOCKENHEIM , Germany -LRB- AP -RRB- -- Lewis Hamilton dominated Friday 's practice sessions for the German Grand Prix , putting McLaren on course for a first Formula One win in Germany in a decade .

1 Hamilton set the day 's fastest lap at one minute , 15.025 seconds in the dry afternoon session at the Hockenheim circuit after having already led the soggy morning session .
1 Teammate Heikki Kovalainen trailed Hamilton at 1:15.666 .

3 ` It was a very strong performance from us and it just showed that we are very competitive and that we did n't have any problems , ' Hamilton said .
3 ` It 's going to be close -LRB- with Ferrari -RRB- but I feel strong , I feel we can definitely challenge for the front row . '

2 Hamilton was nearly seven-tenths of a second quicker than Ferrari 's Felipe Massa , whose 1:15.722 mark led the afternoon session until Hamilton went around fastest with about a minute left .

3 ` Tomorrow will be very close , within a couple of tenths -LRB- of a second -RRB- , ' Hamilton said .

3 Kimi Raikkonen was the only other driver to get under the 1:16.00 mark .
3 The defending world champion ended up with a 1:15.760 for Ferrari .

3 Teams had to battle the elements , which included a gusting wind in the afternoon , as the unseasonable weather forced questions over tire strategies for Saturday 's qualifying .

3 ` I feel I can claim we will be on the pace in any conditions , ' said Massa , who will likely opt for the softer tires .
3 ` It wo n't be a stroll in the park , but we can take them on . '

3 Mark Webber rounded out the day 's top-five with a best lap of 1:16.017 in his Red Bull .

3 Rain has hit three of the past four GPs with Hamilton winning two of the races to lead a three-way tie at the top of Formula One 's championship , ahead of Massa and Raikkonen .
3 All three drivers have 48 points , two better than Robert Kubica of BMW Sauber .

3 Weather could play a significant role in Sunday 's race -- again -- with showers expected .

3 Hamilton oversteered to slide off at one point near the start of the first 90-minute session before pitting as the rain intensified .

3 The Briton , along with most of the field , re-emerged with less than 30 minutes remaining and showers subsiding to a drizzle .
3 The leading time swapped between half a dozen drivers before Hamilton set the pace with his final lap .

3 ` I feel good , I feel comfortable , I feel pretty relaxed , ' said the 23-year-old Hamilton , who continues to rebound strongly following last month 's 10th-place finish at the French GP .
3 ` I feel much more positive and confident as a driver than I did last year . '

3 Kubica did not get a chance to challenge Hamilton in the opening session after snapping the axel on his front left wheel with 11 minutes left after sliding off .

3 ` I touched the white line with the grooved tires , ' the Pole said .
3 ` There was some standing water .
3 I lost control of the car and hit the barrier . '

3 He returned in the afternoon for a best time of 1:16.363 .

3 Although the course dried up for the afternoon , it was still slick -- especially at the Sudkurve corner into the finish line where several drivers ran onto the grass , with Timo Glock nearly sending his Toyota airborne .

3 The sun emerged and the track temperature warmed up -- what Ferrari had been hoping for -- but no driver came close to matching Hamilton , who showed his determination to follow up his victory at the British GP with an untouchable last lap .

3 ` I do n't think one race gives you momentum , it gives you a boost , ' Hamilton said of his 68-second victory at Silverstone .
3 ` We had a good race and hopefully we can get a good race this weekend and score some points and then build the momentum . '

3 Though Alonso won the European GP at Nuerburgring last year , no McLaren driver has taken the German GP since Mika Hakkinen 's victory 10 years ago .
3 Ferrari has won five since then , with Michael Schumacher the last winner in 2006 .

3 Meanwhile , Honda will stick with current drivers Jenson Button and Rubens Barrichello for 2009 , team principal Ross Brawn said earlier Friday .

3 ` Clearly our priority is to sort the car out , because we believe with the drivers we have , if we produce a good car then they can produce from their side , ' Brawn said .
3 ` So we are not looking at anything major on the driver side -- our main priority is the car . '

3 Button , however , would not confirm whether he would stick with the team .

3 ` I would like to stay on next year because I think it 's a team with a great future , ' Button said .

3 The 28-year-old Briton would not say if he had signed a deal for 2009 .

3 ` Being here next year would be great , ' he said .

3 Barrichello , coming off a third-place finish at the British GP , has 11 points to lead the team , with Button at three .
3 Honda is eighth in the constructors ' standings with 14 points , trailing leader Ferrari by 82 .

3 ` The car is not as competitive as we obviously want , but I see a lot of reasons to be optimistic with the team .
3 I have seen the team move forward a long way , ' Brawn said .

3 The 36-year-old Barrichello recently became the most experienced driver in Formula One history .
3 The former Ferrari and Jordan driver has competed in 257 races .
