1 Facebook invites users to help set policy - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- In keeping with the democratic nature of user-generated media , Facebook is inviting its 150 million users to help decide how the online gathering place is run .

1 A week after a policy-change blunder sparked widespread protests , the Web 's most popular social-networking site announced a new approach Thursday to give users more control over future Facebook rules and practices .

3 Site managers published the Facebook Principles , a set of 10 values they hope will make Facebook more transparent , along with a proposed statement of rights and responsibilities governing privacy , content ownership and other issues .
1 Users will be able to comment and vote on the wording of the documents .

3 ` As people share more information on services like Facebook , a new relationship is created between Internet companies and the people they serve , ' Mark Zuckerberg , founder and CEO of Facebook , said in a statement .
3 ` The past week reminded us that users feel a real sense of ownership over Facebook itself , not just the information they share . '

1 Facebook became caught in a content-rights battle after revealing this month that it was granting itself permanent rights to users ' photos , wall posts and other information , even after a user closed an account .
2 Member backlash was swift and severe , as tens of thousands of angry users either canceled their accounts or created online petitions .

3 To quell the uprising , Facebook hastily announced last week it was reverting to its old terms of use policy on member information ` while we resolve the issues that people have raised . '

3 Thursday 's announcement seemed aimed at further reassuring users that they , not Facebook , will retain rights to their postings .

2 ` You own all of the content and information you post on Facebook , including information about you and the actions you take , ' reads the proposed statement of rights and responsibilities , which condenses almost 40 pages of legal jargon into fewer than six pages .

3 Facebook said Thursday it will continue to make independent decisions about the timing and rollout of products .
2 But users will now help determine future changes to Facebook policies through online voting .

1 Over the next month , the fast-growing site will host virtual ` Town Halls ' to collect user comments on the proposed new principles and statement of rights and responsibilities .

3 As of Friday morning , more than 8,600 users had joined a Facebook group to solicit feedback regarding the proposed Facebook Principles , while more than 7,800 had joined a group that was set up to review the proposed statement of rights and responsibilities .

3 Facebook says that after the comment period ends March 29 , it will review users ' submissions , then republish its policies to incorporate feedback .
3 All future policy changes would be subject to similar notice and comment periods .

3 Facebook also plans to establish a user council to participate more closely in the development of future policies and practices .

3 ` Companies like ours need to develop new models of governance , ' Zuckerberg added .
1 ` Rather than simply reissue a new Terms of Use , the changes we 're announcing today are designed to open up Facebook so that users can participate meaningfully in our policies and our future . '

3 Initial reaction to Facebook 's more open approach appeared to be positive .

2 ` The idea that a major company like Facebook would give its users a vote in how the service is governed is remarkable , ' user Julius Harper , co-founding administrator of the People Against the new Terms of Service group , said in a statement posted on Facebook .
3 ` This decision should go far in restoring people 's trust , and I hope it sets a precedent for other online services to follow . '

3 But other members had concerns about section 2.3 of the proposed statement of rights and responsibilities , which states that users will grant Facebook license ` to use , copy , publicly perform or display , distribute , modify , translate , and create derivative works of ... any content you post ' until a member deletes the content or closes an account .

3 ` This is precisely why I pulled one of my photos and why I 'm now considering the deletion of my account , ' Bertha Chambers of Harrisburg , Pennsylvania , wrote in a Facebook post Thursday afternoon .

3 ` If Facebook wants to make money through advertising ... that 's fine with me .
3 BUT , I 'm not giving Facebook permission to use my words or my art for their profit or in ways or reasons that I might not personally support . '
