3 Facetime with Ahmed Ali Al Sayegh - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- As record oil prices dominate the headlines , natural gas is an energy sector gaining more recognition .
3 MME 's John Defterios -LRB- JD -RRB- talks with the CEO of Dolphin Energy , Ahmed Ali Al Sayegh -LRB- AS -RRB- about the importance of the natural gas sector , the impact of high oil prices , and increasing global energy demand .

1 Al Sayegh is head of the largest single energy initiative in the Middle East , linking the three Gulf states of Qatar , U.A.E. and Oman , and producing two billion cubic feet of gas a day , equivalent to 350,000 barrels of oil .

3 John Defterios begins by asking him why his company spent seven years building a giant natural gas plant an pipeline in a region swimming with oil .

3 -LRB- AS -RRB- : It was clear from the beginning , we needed to import gas and the Qataris wanted to export gas .
3 So there was economic alignment .
3 We respected that and they respected our needs , but political will , I believe , these three countries are very close politically and they needed to exercise this closeness and this project provided a fantastic opportunity for us to come together .

3 -LRB- JD -RRB- : It 's fascinating .
3 I do n't think people realize the scope of this field .
1 The Qatari side of the North Field is 14 per cent of the world 's supply of natural gas .
3 This has a long , long shelf life in terms of production , does it not ?

3 -LRB- AS -RRB- : It has a very long life .
3 Our transaction is for 25 years but it can go much longer than that .
3 We hope we will be able to produce more from this field to fill our pipeline to its maximum capacity .

3 -LRB- JD -RRB- : There is a lot of political pressure now , or calls from Washington and the European Union for OPEC to provide more oil , more energy to the global market .
3 But what is the reality ?
3 Is there is a capacity problem or is there not ?
3 What is from your view the reality today ?

3 -LRB- AS -RRB- : The reserves in the Middle East are there and the commitment from the governments in the Middle East to produce those reserves , existing production and extract production is there .
3 The reality is , it takes four to five years to bring any extra capacity on stream .

3 -LRB- JD -RRB- : But did everybody miscalculate the demand realistically from China and India on top of the demand from the existing OECD-countries ?

3 -LRB- AS -RRB- : I think it was , nobody knew there is going to be this much growth , and yes , it was miscalculated .
3 But now , I think , everyone is investing to bring extra capacity on stream .
3 We are doing this in the U.A.E. , in Saudi Arabia , in Kuwait , in Iraq and I think the key issue is to keep producing in a sustainable manner without damaging our environment .

3 -LRB- JD -RRB- : Are you surprised personally about and realistically about this oil price of $ 120 per barrel that we see today ?

3 -LRB- AS -RRB- : I would be much richer if I would not be surprised by this level .
3 I think the demand is real , the region itself is growing and of course you have to add what is happening in China and India .
3 I think , people and economies have adjusted to a $ 100 oil very well and we are happy to continue to provide the capacity and the investment to meet our export requirements .
3 Beyond that anything what I say would be speculation .

3 -LRB- JD -RRB- : I see the tone in the Middle East is much more pragmatic .
3 So there is not a rush to get all this capacity built to get oil to market .
3 Is this a change of attitude that needs to be preserved for future generations now ?

3 -LRB- AS -RRB- : Well , as I have mentioned to you , it must be sustainable .
3 Hydrocarbons are a wealth of all these nations and they must produce them in a sustainable way .
3 We are not reservoirs of oil .
3 We are countries , people and with aspirations and futures .
3 In that respect , I think , we are doing everything we can to bring this capacity on stream on time .
3 And there is no reluctance to do this .
1 The only real limiting factor , and you have been in this region , is the ability to build it , the ability to actually physically build it .
