2 Gadgets for beating the fitness blues - CNN.com .
1 LONDON , England -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- If you 're finding difficulty keeping your New Year 's fitness resolutions , do n't fret .

3 The move toward healthier living has given rise to gadgets that make approaching exercising easier than ever before .

2 Aimed at the so-called Wii generation , these devices are all about the personal , featuring biometric trackers and other ways to monitor performance .

3 ` Increasingly applications are about measuring yourself , ' says Jim Clark , senior technology analyst at market research firm Mintel .

3 He says this market has lots of potential for growth , with an increasing number of devices boasting motion-sensing capabilities .

2 Here are four devices that could help you overcome your fitness blues .

3 How do you motivate yourself to stay in shape ?

3 Wii Fit 

3 Targeted at families , Nintendo 's Wii Fit has been creating waves in the market fitness gadgets since it was launched last year .

3 The system , which is used with a Wii video game console , is n't a substitute for the gym .
3 But you can use it for a range of strength training , yoga and cardio exercises .

1 The Wii Fit includes a balance board that records your movements and gives feedback on how you 're doing .
3 It costs $ 90 , while the basic game console itself runs around $ 250 .

3 According to Scott Owens , associate professor of exercise science at the University of Mississippi , it 's too early too tell what impact devices like the Wii Fit have on fitness trends .

3 But these sorts of whole body movement devices are an encouraging development , he says .

3 ` Every little bit helps in the battle against obesity . '

3 Garmin Edge 

3 If you cycle , you 've already taken a step towards better fitness .

3 Riding a bike lowers the risk of serious conditions such as heart disease , high blood pressure , obesity as well as the most common form of diabetes , according to British health insurance provider Bupa .

3 Products like Garmin 's super cycle computers can help you get the most out of your ride .
3 The GPS-enabled gadgets , which cost from $ 250 to $ 500 , help cyclists navigate routes as well as keeps tabs on their workout .

2 In addition to the usual details -- speed , distance , calories burned -- the latest model , the Edge 705 , tracks your heart rate so you can measure just how hard you 're working .

3 Nike + iPod Sport Kit 

3 The Nike + iPod Sport Kit -LRB- $ 29 -RRB- is an ideal companion for runners who already own an iPod nano or iPod touch .

2 A sensor you place in your Nike shoes monitors useful details of your run , tracking your pace , distance and calories burned .

2 The kit displays those stats on your iPod , as well as provides voice feedback over the course of the workout .
3 You can even select a favorite motivational song to get you through rough patches .

3 When you 're done , upload the stats online .
3 You 'll have a log of all your workouts , and are able to share them with fellow runners online .

3 Fitbug 

3 If you do n't want to spend a lot on gear , walking is a simple way to boost your health .
3 But make sure you maintain a step log .

3 Keeping track of the steps you take has been clearly associated with greater improvements in physical activity .

3 A 2007 study in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that the use of a pedometer is also associated with significant decreases in body mass index and blood pressure .

3 Smart pedometers like the Fitbug make recording your steps a breeze .
3 The gadget not only measures the distance you cover but also allows you to upload your stats online .

3 At a cost of $ 140 , you get the device and weekly messages of encouragement and progress updates for a year .
