1 Mush ! 1 Five places to go dog sledding - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Snow flies in your face as furry friends pull you across the isolated tundra .
3 You feel the air freeze your breath , but the cold wo n't stop you .
3 You 're facing Mother Nature head on -- with the help of a trusty guide , of course .

1 Dog sledding may be less of an impossible -LRB- and far off -RRB- dream than you think .
3 Many dog team owners in Alaska and the Canadian territories offer trips to the inexperienced public .
3 There are even a few places in the continental United States that provide such an opportunity .

1 CNN asked Greg Sellentin , publisher of Mushing magazine , to recommend five places to get the real dog sledding experience .

3 Alaskan Arctic Expeditions , Alaska 

2 Led by a team of purebred Alaskan Malamutes , Alaskan Arctic 's expeditions take place in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge .

3 The ANWR has more than 19 million acres of pristine land .
3 These expeditions are extremely remote -- at times 100 miles from the nearest road or village .
3 For $ 385 per day per person , you will be provided with all necessary camping gear and cold-weather apparel .
3 Trips in the ANWR are offered from February through May .

3 From mid-November through January , Alaskan Arctic Expeditions also offers overnight or multi-day trips out of Fairbanks , Alaska , that run $ 250 per day per person -LRB- two-person minimum for all trips -RRB- .

3 Mahoosuc Guide Service , Maine 

2 Mahoosuc Guide Service offers day , overnight , 3-day weekend and 4 to 6 day sled dog excursions .
3 Day groups travel on gentle trails near Grafton Notch State Park and tuck into a campfire-cooked lunch .
3 ` For those contemplating trying dog sledding on their own , we offer instruction in training , handling , and the opportunity for you to drive one of our well behaved dog teams , ' Mahoosuc 's Web site states .

3 Overnight and longer travelers are provided with all necessary clothing and equipment .
3 Opportunities for skiing and snowshoeing are also available , for participants in good shape .
3 Two-day trips are $ 555 ; three-day trips are $ 630 .
3 Children under 13 get a 25 percent discount .

3 At Mahoosuc , you will travel with celebrities : The dogs at Mahoosuc Guide Service have starred in several movies , including ` Never Cry Wolf . '

3 Seavey 's Ididaride Sled Dog Tours , Alaska 

1 Dan Seavey co-founded the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race in 1973 .
3 Since then , his family has bred five Iditarod racers and 100 champion sled dogs .

3 Seavey 's offers summer and winter tours in Sterling , Alaska , and summer tours in Seward , Alaska .
3 In the summer , your adventure begins with a two-mile dog sled ride in a wheeled sled .
3 Once finished , visitors can tour the kennel , dress up like a musher and ` cuddle adorable husky puppies , ' Seavey 's Web site states .
3 The winter tours travel the Kenai Peninsula .

3 Prices for summer tours are $ 59 for adults , $ 29 for children .
3 Winter tours are $ 99 for adults , $ 69 for children .
3 Full day packages that include a tour of Seward and Exit Glacier are also available for $ 129 for adults , $ 79 for children .

3 Uncommon Journeys , Yukon Territory 

2 For those looking for a longer trip , Uncommon Journeys is your destination .
1 Owners Rod and Martha Taylor have been leading people into the wilderness for more than 20 years .
3 They offer seven-day and two-week expeditions that run from $ 3,500 to $ 10,000 .

3 Many people start their journey at the Uncommon Homestead , which has a sundeck , hot tub , library , greenhouse , recreation room and dining area .
3 ` You could conceivably mush a dog team 150 miles to the Pacific Ocean from our front yard and not see another soul on the entire trip ! '
3 the Uncommon Web site states .

3 Snowy Owl Dog Sled Tours , Canadian Rockies 

2 Snowy Owl Dog Sled Tours offers trips anywhere from two hours for $ 137 per person to two days , including an overnight for $ 1,200 per person .
3 The Powder Hound Express is designed for visitors on a tight schedule .
3 It includes a 30-minute orientation and a one-hour backcountry ride .
3 If you 're comfortable , you can drive your own dog sled team .

3 The Sunfeather Winterlude runs four hours and includes a campfire lunch .
3 Or you can try the Snowy Mountain Winter Village that offers two hours of dog sledding and a bunch of activities like snow shoeing and tobogganing .
3 Of course the overnight guests need lodging , which is why Snowy Owl owns a heated Sioux Indian Tipi .
