1 New search under way for pilot Steve Fossett - CNN.com .
1 BRIDGEPORT , California -LRB- AP -RRB- -- A 10-member team of elite athletes and expert mountaineers hopes to do what search planes and satellite imagery could n't -- find Steve Fossett 's body .

1 The multimillionaire adventurer was declared legally dead in February , five months after he was last seen taking off by plane from a remote Nevada ranch owned by hotel magnate Barron Hilton .

1 The search team , led by geologist and adventure racer Simon Donato , will focus on remote , wooded areas near where the 63-year-old Fossett was last seen -- areas that could have concealed wreckage from the crews of the many private and military planes that searched last year .

3 ` Whether we luck out and find the wreckage or not , at least our tracks will be preserved so that in the future if someone wants to give this a try , they 'll know where we already were and they can go to the next mountain range over , ' Donato said in a weekend interview at a base camp between the Bodie Hills and Sweetwater Mountains .

2 The search area , with peaks ranging from 10,000 to more than 11,000 feet in elevation , is just east of the even higher Sierra Nevada and about 110 miles south of Reno , Nevada .
3 Because the area is close to Hilton 's ranch , where Fossett was staying , Donato believes it 's the best place to search .

1 Search team members , who are paying their own way , began arriving Friday to set up camp .
3 The team will continue its efforts through this coming Friday and possibly Saturday , covering 15 to 20 miles a day depending on the terrain , Donato said .

3 Previous searchers provided maps and other detailed information on the harsh landscape .
3 With planes and high-tech equipment , about 20,000 square miles was covered from the air .
3 Some ground searches also were conducted , and thousands of amateur volunteers scoured high-resolution satellite photographs over the Internet of the rugged Nevada landscape where Fossett disappeared .

2 Donato considers Fossett , declared legally dead February 15 by an Illinois judge , a hero to many people and dismisses speculation that his disappearance might have been staged .

3 ` We 're here on the premise that he did crash , unfortunately , ' he said .
3 ` I really respect him .
3 He has done so much . '

3 Donato , 31 , wo n't be the only one looking for Fossett .
3 In late August , Robert Hyman , a Washington , D.C. , investor and alpinist , plans to bring in a team of up to 15 climbers , mountain guides and others with backcountry expertise to check an area just east of the section where Donato will search .

3 Hyman said he will focus in and around the Wassuk Range , dominated by 11,239-foot-high Mount Grant .
3 When Fossett took off September 3 from Hilton 's ranch in a borrowed plane on what was supposed to be a short pleasure flight , he headed toward Lucky Boy Pass in the Wassuks .

3 The search area is so rugged that for some a continued search may seem hopeless .
3 It has on occasion taken decades to find missing people and planes crashed in the area .

3 Fossett 's widow , Peggy , issued a statement saying she 's not involved in the latest search activity and has ` no further plans for additional searching . '
