1 U.N. chief : Gaza violence ` heartbreaking ' - CNN.com .
1 GAZA CITY , Gaza -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- The U.N. chief has visited the burned-out shell of a U.N. compound in Gaza and urged both Israeli and Palestinian leaders to achieve political reconciliation after what he said was the ` heartbreaking ' violence of the last three weeks .

3 ` The repeated violence felt by Palestinians and Israelis is a mark of collective political failure , ' Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said Tuesday .

3 Speaking less than three days after Israel and the Palestinian militant group Hamas each agreed to a cease-fire to end three-weeks of intense fighting , Ban had strong words for both sides .

3 ` I have condemned from the outbreak of this conflict the excessive use of force by Israeli forces in Gaza .
3 I view the rocket attacks into Israel as completely unacceptable .
3 We need to restore basic respect for civilians , ' he said .

3 He also called on Palestinian factions to unify under the framework of the Palestinian Authority .
1 He described seeing ` heartbreaking scenes ' and said he was ` deeply grieved by what I have seen today . '

3 Ban planned to travel next to Sderot , a city in southern Israel where civilians have been targeted by Hamas rocket attacks from Gaza for years .

3 While his trip through the region is aimed largely at pushing all players to avoid a resumption of the violence , it is also to push for an investigation into Israel 's shelling of the U.N. compound .

3 ` I 'm just appalled .
3 I 'm not able to describe how I am feeling having seen this site , ' he said , adding that he could smell the facility still burning .
3 ` It is an outrageous and totally unacceptable attack against the United Nations . '

3 Earlier , Ban met Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and expressed his relief that Israel had declared a cease-fire , according to the U.N. chief 's spokesperson .

3 Ban also stressed the importance of the full withdrawal of Israeli troops from Gaza .
1 Watch more on withdrawal of Israeli troops Ban also told Olmert that the U.N. would continue to play a pivotal role in providing humanitarian assistance to the people of Gaza , as well as in long-term recovery and reconstruction , the spokesperson said .

3 He told Olmert he was visiting Gaza in solidarity with U.N. staff who had worked heroically , and to demonstrate his respect and concern for all Gazans who lost friends and families .

3 More than 1,300 Palestinians died and about 5,400 others were wounded during Israel 's three-week offensive in Gaza , according to the Palestinian Authority 's Central Bureau of Statistics .
3 Among the dead were 159 children .

3 More than 22,000 buildings were damaged or destroyed , with the Bureau putting the cost at more than $ 1.9 billion .

3 The fighting largely stopped Sunday with a cease-fire .

3 Israel has said 13 of its citizens -- including 10 soldiers -- were killed during the offensive , which started December 27 .
3 Israel said its offensive was aimed at stopping Hamas militants from firing rockets into southern Israel .

3 The attacks destroyed public sector and private buildings in Gaza , affecting even the United Nations Relief and Works Agency 's facilities and halting economic and social services , the statistics agency said .

3 Gaza 's gross domestic product was slashed by 85 percent during the 22 days of war , and it could take a year for the economy to recover , the agency said in a preliminary report .
