3 Analysis : After the war , an uneasy peace - CNN.com .
1 GAZA CITY -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Just a few hours before President Barack Obama rode in a triumphal parade from Capitol Hill to the White House , in Gaza City there was another triumphal parade .

2 Thousands of people , carrying Hamas ' green flag and the banners of other Palestinian factions , converged on the now demolished Palestinian parliament .

2 There , the usual bombastic speeches were made over a makeshift sound system about ` victory over the Zionist enemy ' and the need to resist Israeli aggresion and liberate all Palestinian territory from Israeli occupation .

3 I 've covered dozens of such ` victory ' celebrations in Gaza -- and what struck me as I watched the smiling , chanting crowd go by was that despite everything that has happened here since 27 December 2008 , when Israel launched its version of ` shock and awe , ' little has actually changed .

1 Despite Israel 's intense bombardment of Gaza , the deaths of more than 1,300 people -LRB- a majority of whom appear to have been civilians -RRB- , the wounding and maiming of more than 5,000 more , the destruction of thousands of buildings , including ministries , hospitals , U.N. facilities , even Gaza 's American International School , Hamas is still in business .
3 Watch Hamas supporters celebrate in Gaza The morning after Israel 's unilateral ceasefire went into effect , Hamas-controlled police were back on the streets directing traffic .
3 Hamas fighters were walking around central Gaza City with their AK-47 assault rifles slung casually over their shoulders , workers from the electricity company had begun the mammoth task of repairing the damage , and government bulldozers were busy clearing rubble off the streets .

3 That same morning I was on the northern edge of Beit Lahiya , close to the border with Israel , and saw two rockets streak into the sky in the direction of Israel .
3 The rockets were a message to Israel : We are still here .
3 Later Sunday Hamas announced its own ceasefire .

1 Israeli officials insist they have successfully crippled Hamas , but no one in Gaza -- not even those who would like to see Hamas disappear off the face of the earth -- shares that opinion .

2 Hamas was shaken by the Israeli offensive , but is still standing .
3 Among many in the Arab world -- though not necessarily the region 's rulers - -- Hamas and its fighters are now heroes .

3 Like Hezbollah in Lebanon in 2006 , Hamas did not raise a white flag nor did its fighters surrender en masse to Israeli forces .

3 Compare that with the utter humiliation and defeat suffered by the combined regular armies of Jordan , Syria and Egypt in just six days of fighting with Israel in June 1967 .

3 A pattern may be emerging where the Israeli military -- by far the best equipped in the region -- simply can not defeat its enemies on the battlefield .
3 And , as any student of the Middle East knows , to survive is to triumph .

3 Also unchanged is Israel 's determination to maintain its stranglehold on Gaza , put in place in January 2006 following Palestinian parliamentary elections that brought Hamas to power .

3 It will almost certainly not ease its strict control on what and how much goods enter and exit through Gaza 's crossings .
3 Israel is equally determined not to open a dialogue with Hamas , and will do its best to bend sympathic ears in Washington and European capitals to ensure no one else talks to them either .

3 Western warships may soon be deployed to ensure nothing -- weapons but also non-military goods -- reaches Gaza by sea .
3 Officials of the European Union have said no aid will go to Gaza as long as Hamas is in control .

3 Likewise , Israel and the U.S. , during the final days of the Bush administration , signed a memorandum of understanding aimed at stopping smuggling from Egypt to Gaza -LRB- never mind that Egypt was neither a signatory nor was consulted -RRB- .

3 It all adds up to a continuation of the policy best summed up by Dov Weisglass , an advisor to Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert , who said : ` The idea is to put the Palestinians on a diet , but not to make them die of hunger . '

1 In short , all the factors that led up to Israel 's offensive -- the rockets , the siege , Hamas ' political isolation -- are unchanged .
3 After the war , Hamas needs a respite , the Israeli government probably would like some relief from the harsh international criticism of its actions , and the people of Gaza are desperate for peace and quiet , as are the Israelis who live around Gaza .

1 There may indeed be a period of relative quiet , but another flare up -- perhaps worse than the latest -- is a definite possibility .

2 Get ready for the next round .
