1 Green and Pernice share Sony Open advantage - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Nathan Green of Australia and Tom Pernice Jr share the lead after the second round of the Sony Open in Hawaii .

1 Taking advantage of an early start and pristine conditions at the Waialae Country Club , Green fired his second straight four-under-par 66 and is on 132 after 36 holes .

3 Green , whose best finish in 90 previous PGA events was second at the Buick Invitational in 2006 , had five birdies and one bogey during his second round .

3 ` I do n't think the conditions were as bad as we thought they were going to be , ' he said .
3 ` Last night , you could hear the wind whipping .
3 Sort of a stronger version of yesterday .
3 It did n't seem anywhere near as strong as they predicted . '

1 Pernice played later in the day and blistered the course for a 63 , firing five birdies and an eagle on the par-five 18 .

3 ` Obviously , conditions like this on a challenging golf course make it a very good round , ' said Pernice .
3 ` You 're not going out thinking you 're going to shoot seven-under .
3 You just kind of plod your way around and try to hang in there .

1 The pair hold a one-stroke edge over first-round leader Shigeki Maruyama , who fired a 68 to go with his opening 65 , and Brian Gay .

3 Maruyama is on seven-under 133 overall , while Gay fired a 67 to go with his first-round 66 .
3 ` The greens were a little slower today than they were yesterday , ' Maruyama said .
3 ` But I hit the ball well .
3 I hit some good drives , hit some good second shots and hit some good putts . '

3 Zach Johnson is another shot back , tied for fifth after a hot-and-cold round of 65 .
3 The 2007 Masters champion had two bogeys , five birdies and an eagle on the ninth for a five-under-par total .
3 Johnson is level with Webb Simpson on six-under-par .

3 Geoff Ogilvy , who cruised to a six-stroke victory at the Mercedes-Benz Championship last week , is part of a group on five-under overall .
3 Ogilvy fired a 69 and is tied with Steve Marino , Boo Weekley and Charles Howell III on 135 .
