1 Green roofs cool cities , combat climate change , say Germans - CNN.com .
3 LONDON , England -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- If your neighbor mentions their green roof you might think they have a moss problem .
3 Maybe they are simply referring to the color .
3 But you 're unlikely to think that they have just had a mini ecosystem installed .

3 Simply put , green roofs are gardens on your roof .
3 They come in all shapes and sizes and range from a simple layer of turf to bite-sized hanging gardens of Babylon .

1 But green roofs are not just aesthetic .
2 They have important environmental benefits : they absorb storm water , reduce noise pollution , absorb heat -LRB- thus lessening the urban heat-island effect -RRB- and add an extra layer of insulation to buildings .
3 That 's why they are increasingly being used on new builds as the construction industry looks to make use of greener technologies .

1 The concept of a green roof goes back centuries : The turf roofed dwellings of the Vikings are early examples , but the modern green roof we know today was developed in Germany 50 years ago .
3 Since then , they have become increasingly popular , yet the industry still struggles against skeptics , who believe green roofs to be expensive and liable to leaking .

2 The exception to the rule has been Germany , where the industry is now annually worth $ 77 million .
1 Even by the end of the 1990s , 50 million square meters of German roofs , the equivalent of 10 percent of flat roofs , were recorded to be green .

3 The industry is not faring so well in other parts of the world .
3 While the UK has seen a steady increase in interest since the 1960s , a lack of input from the industry and policy-makers has left Britain far behind Germany 's booming market .

3 In North America , green roofs have taken even longer to catch on .
3 Green Roofs for Healthy Cities , a Canadian non-profit industry association , conducted a survey in 2005 which indicated that only 233,000 square meters of green roofs existed in North America .
3 But this was up 80 percent from the previous year , and the market continues to grow .

3 Majora Carter , who set up Sustainable South Bronx to help lift the area out of poverty by creating green-collar jobs , is frustrated by this difference between the European and American industries .
3 ` In Germany they are down to $ 20 per square meter , which is way cheaper than a regular roof here , ' she told CNN .

3 ` There are mandates over there because of the storm water they retain , ' she continued , ` Which is a huge drain on their resources , as it is on ours .
3 What we are trying to do is champion the policies behind storm water . '

3 Storm water is a growing problem in cities .
3 The lack of permeable surfaces are loading drainage systems and increasing the risk of flooding .
3 It 's green roofs ' ability to retain high levels of precipitation that are seen as way to control and slow the water run-off .

3 The mandates Carter refers to are part of Germany 's Green Area and Biotope Area Federal Law .
3 They are not a legal requirement , but through incentives set up at a city level , the mandates have helped to encourage cheaper prices .

1 Dusty Gedge , co-founder of Livingroof.org , a UK Web site promoting the green roof industry , believes it is the government 's responsibility to help the industry grow .
3 ` We need government bodies to accept certain civil engineering benefits , such as storm water amelioration , like the Germans , Austrians and Swiss do , ' he told CNN .
3 ` This will encourage uptake . '

3 In many countries , the green roof industry is vulnerable to non-acceptance and a lack of understanding .
3 Gedge says , ` There are problems with the construction industry viewing vegetation as a problem and not a benefit . '
3 Green roofs also struggle against better-known technologies such as solar panels , but Gedge points out , ` Solar panels can work better on green roofs than on gray roofs . '

3 Despite this lack of support , the green roof industry is growing .
3 In London alone , there are approximately 1 million square meters of green roofs planned , with about 200,000 square meters already installed .

3 And as climate change stays in the headlines , the popularity of green roofs is growing .
3 According to Gedge , ` Over the last eight years , green roofs -LRB- in the UK -RRB- have gone from being a very marginal approach to a mainstream approach .
3 Cities such as London and Sheffield are now asking for them as part of planning applications . '

1 But Gedge also believes that support from local government , as opposed to a centrally driven policy , is key to the industry 's growth .
3 ` In Switzerland , green roofs are federal law , but again this is interpreted at a cantonal and city level , ' he told CNN .
3 ` This is a much better approach than driven by the center . '
3 Managing the industry through federal laws offers a general framework which can then be interpreted as needed .
3 In an industry that varies from project to project , this flexibility is a valuable asset .

1 So the green roof industry continues to grow -- but there 's a feeling that government support could be better .
3 With a little more encouragement , what once was an eccentric way to roof your home could soon become the universal standard , turning our cities into lush , green metropolises .
3 But then , it 's not easy being green .

3 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 

3 Would you put a green roof on your home ?
3 Do green roofs really help the environment -- or are they an expensive indulgence ?
3 Share your views in the Sound Off box below .
