1 Hamas says it may consider Israeli soldier 's release - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- The Palestinian militant group Hamas said Monday that it is willing to consider the release of an Israeli soldier who was seized in a cross-border raid more than two years ago .

1 But the Hamas leadership of Gaza will not release Gilad Shalit as part of a broader cease-fire agreement with Israel , according to a statement released Monday from Hamas political official Raafat Naseef .

3 Hamas is a fundamentalist Palestinian Islamic group whose military wing has attacked Israel .
3 The United States and Israel consider it a terrorist organization , but it also operates a social services network .

3 Hamas is in control of Gaza after winning parliamentary elections in 2006 , and in 2007 , a campaign of violence forced the Fatah movement led by Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas out of Gaza .

3 The matter of Shalit was one of three issues that Hamas sought to ` clarify ' its commitment to in the statement .

3 It said the clarifications were ` in light of recent developments which are concurrent with the Cairo dialogues ' -- a reference to Egypt 's attempts to broker a larger , more detailed cease-fire between Israel and the Hamas leadership of Gaza .

1 Shalit was 19 when he was captured June 25 , 2006 , by Palestinian militants from Gaza , including those from Hamas .

3 The militants tunneled into Israel and attacked an Israeli army outpost near the Gaza-Israel-Egypt border , killing two other soldiers in the assault .

3 Israel immediately launched a military incursion into Gaza to rescue Shalit , but failed .

1 Outgoing Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has been under pressure to secure Shalit 's release as part of a broader cease-fire deal with Hamas .

3 Israel temporarily halted its recent three-week military operation in Gaza and declared a unilateral cease-fire that did not include Shalit 's release as a condition .
3 Hamas later declared its own unilateral cease-fire .

3 Earlier this month , Olmert said recent media reports about the negotiations to secure the Shalit 's release were ` exaggerated and damaging . '

3 Last week , Israel held elections for a new government which the centrist Kadima with just one seat more than the right-wing Likud both parties are now seeking to form a ruling coalition .

3 The strong showing of other right-wing parties -- including Yisrael Beytenu and the Orthodox Shas movement -- means Likud has more natural allies .

1 Liked leader Benjamin Netanyahu said Monday : ` We have a government in our hands , but we want a broader one . '

1 He added that he will negotiate with other parties , including Kadima , ` to form a broad national unity government . '

2 ` With God 's help , I shall head the coming government , ' he said .
1 ` I am sure that I can manage to put together a good , broad-based and stable government that will be able to deal with the security crisis and the economic crisis . '

3 Netanyahu -- who served as prime minister from 1996 to 1999 -- has supported the expansion of Israeli settlements on the West Bank and has opposed making further territorial concessions in hope of ending the decades-old Israeli-Palestinian conflict .
