2 Study suggests Zoloft , Lexapro tops for treating depression - CNN.com .
3 All antidepressant drugs are not created equal , according to the authors of one of the few studies that have ever systematically analyzed and compared ` new generation ' medicines for treating depression .

2 In the analysis of 12 drugs , two came out on top as the most effective and best tolerated as first-line treatments : sertraline -LRB- Zoloft -RRB- and escitalopram -LRB- Lexapro -RRB- .
2 Venlafaxine -LRB- Effexor -RRB- and mirtazapine -LRB- Remeron -RRB- rounded out the top four for effectiveness , but venlafaxine was also among the four drugs patients were most likely to quit taking because of side effects .
3 Reboxetine -LRB- Edronax -RRB- was less effective than the rest .

3 While psychiatrists treating depressed patients every day have had a sense of which medications are best , the current study ` nails it , ' says Sagar V. Parikh , M.D. , of the University of Toronto .
3 Parikh , who wrote a comment accompanying the study that is published in the current issue of The Lancet , says the findings have ` enormous implications ' because , for the first time , they offer doctors an evidence-based , unbiased way to recommend treatment .
3 And , he adds , they give patients a ` gold standard of reliable information , ' especially since the study 's authors plan to make their findings available free on the Web .

3 Not so fast , says Gerald Gartlehner , M.D. , M.P.H. , who coauthored a review of the benefits and risks of the same 12 drugs published last November in the Annals of Internal Medicine .
3 He and his colleagues concluded , based on their review done while Gartlehner was at the RTI-UNC Evidence-Based Practice Center in Chapel Hill , North Carolina. , that there was no clinically meaningful evidence that any one of the drugs was better than the rest .
1 Instead , they argued , decisions on which drug to use should be based on factors such as cost and side effects .

3 In the current study , Andrea Cipriani , M.D. , of the University of Verona in Italy , and colleagues used a new technique called multiple-treatments meta-analysis to make head-to-head comparisons among the 12 drugs , incorporating 117 randomized controlled trials including 25,928 patients in all .
3 There has been little scientific evidence of the relative effectiveness of these drugs , because most studies compare one against a handful of others or a placebo , and are often funded by the maker of a particular drug , which can bias the findings in its favor , the researchers note .

3 They used two measurements to gauge a drug 's effectiveness and tolerability : the percentage of patients who showed at least a 50 percent improvement in their symptoms as measured by one of two scales , or who scored ` much improved or very much improved ' after eight weeks of treatment -LRB- or from six to twelve weeks if eight-week data were n't available -RRB- and the percentage of patients who dropped out of the study before eight weeks for any reason .

3 The 12 drugs included bupropion , citalopram , duloxetine , escitalopram , fluoxetine , fluvoxamine , milnacipran , mirtazapine , paroxetine , reboxetine , sertraline , and venlafaxine .
3 The authors did not use any funding from drug manufacturers to conduct their study .

3 ` This is an unbiased approach to combining the maximum possible data and comparing a large number of drugs rather than one versus a select handful , so there 's much more confidence in these findings , ' says Parikh .
1 Basically , Parikh explains , Cipriani and colleagues were able to make comparisons among drugs that had n't been studied head-to-head by using their effectiveness as compared with Prozac -- the best studied of these drugs -- as a kind of common currency .

3 ` There are limitations to the indirect approach used -- nonetheless , we think its the best available at present .
3 The analysis will need to be updated regularly to include all new upcoming evidence , ' Cipriani and coauthor John Geddes , M.D. , director of the Centre for Evidence-Based Mental Health at the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom , said via e-mail .

3 The findings do n't mean that everyone should be put on Zoloft or Lexapro , and they should n't be seen as suggesting that people who are on other drugs should go off them , Cipriani and Geddes say .

3 While it 's good to have choices available since not everyone will benefit from a particular drug , there also seem to be a lot of ` me too ' products out there that offer no additional benefit but cost more , the authors add .
3 They suggest that future studies should compare new antidepressants with sertraline , rather than to a placebo or a cherry-picked selection of other drugs .

3 ` Requiring new treatments to show either greater efficacy or acceptability than an existing standard therapy would serve as a disincentive to the development of me-too agents that offer little to patients other than increased costs , ' they write .

3 But according to Gartlehner , who is now with the Danube University in Krems , Austria , the approach Cipriani et .
3 al. used has ` serious downsides ' that they did not acknowledge .
3 Also , he argues , their use of odds ratios rather than relative risks led to overestimations of the differences among the various drugs .

3 Most of these differences are statistically significant , but they 're probably not clinically relevant , ' Gartlehner said .
3 ` It 's quite a stretch to say that ... clinically important differences exist between commonly prescribed antidepressants . '

1 He and his colleagues did see differences among the drugs in side-effect profiles that could in fact be relevant to patients , Gartlehner said , and he argues that the finding that venlaxafine caused more nausea and vomiting while sertraline was associated with diarrhea , as well as the fact that some drugs must be taken several times a day while others can be taken less often , are important considerations , along with cost .

3 But for Parikh , the differences in effectiveness and tolerability that Cipriani identified can make a real difference to patients .
3 ` The magnitude of these differences is not huge in terms of effectiveness .
3 It 's genuine , but it 's modest , ' Parikh said .
3 ` You can say to a patient , ` Do you want the strongest possible drug or do you want the one that 's least likely to give you side effects , or do you want some balance ? ''

3 He added , ` It allows a dialogue to say , ` What suits you ? '
3 And if you 're able to engage a patient in that dialogue , there 's a much better chance of a patient sticking to that treatment because they 've been able to tailor that treatment to their individual preference . '
