2 Hormone therapy linked to brain shrinkage in older women - CNN.com .
3 Not too long ago , millions of postmenopausal women were taking estrogen as part of hormone therapy to protect their hearts , prevent cancer , and keep their brains sharp .

1 But two new studies in the journal Neurology show that not only does hormone replacement therapy increase the risk of heart attack , stroke , blood clots , and breast cancer in women over the age of 65 , but it also shrinks their brains .

3 ` This is extra-double-triple reason not to go on estrogen after 65 , ' said Dr. Constantine Lyketsos of the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center in East Baltimore , Maryland .
3 Lyketsos , an expert on dementia treatment , was not involved in the research .

1 Experts say the findings should not be cause for alarm among younger women who are taking estrogen according to the current guidelines .

3 The U.S. Food and Drug Administration recommends that women who take hormones to treat hot flashes and other menopausal symptoms start doing so as early as possible , at the lowest effective dose , for the shortest time possible .
3 Women who have n't had a hysterectomy need to take a combination of estrogen and progestin , because estrogen alone increases the risk of cancer of the lining of the uterus ; women who 've had their uterus removed can take estrogen alone .

3 There is good evidence that for younger women , estrogen can actually help defog the brain , improve mental function , and possibly even protect against Alzheimer 's disease decades later , said Dr. Pauline Maki , who runs a research program on steroid hormones ' effect on cognitive function at the University of Illinois at Chicago .
3 She was not involved with the new studies .

3 One of the most plausible explanations for this paradox is the ` healthy cell bias of estrogen . '
3 In other words , estrogen is good for healthy cells , and bad for unhealthy cells , she explained .
3 In her own research , Maki has shown that women who experience an unusually high number of hot flashes during menopause have worse verbal memory .

3 ` What I think happens is that women 's brains during hot flashes , while they 're not sleeping as well -- the brain material is still fine , ' Maki said .
3 ` When you introduce estrogen to these women , you 're introducing it into a healthy cell , and the results , cognitively , are generally beneficial . '

3 Older women 's brain cells are likely to be in worse shape than younger women 's , especially if their mental faculties are already fading .

1 ` The scenario that seems to arise is one where -LRB- hormone therapy -RRB- at the dose of this trial is harmful to the frailest brains , but perhaps not to the strongest ones , ' said Giovanni Frisoni , of the National Center for Research and Care of Alzheimer 's Disease in Brescia , Italy .
3 Frisoni has studied estrogen 's effects on brain volumes , but was not involved in the new research .

2 The two news studies are offshoots of the Women 's Health Initiative Memory Study -LRB- WHIMS -RRB- , which found an increased risk of dementia in women on hormone therapy .
3 WHIMS is a parallel study to the Women 's Health Initiative , the landmark clinical trial , which in 2002 found that hormone therapy was hurting some women more than it helped them .

2 The WHIMS researchers had suspected that the women on hormone therapy would have blood vessel disease in the brain , which can destroy brain tissue by restricting blood flow to cells , leading to mental impairment and resulting in vascular dementia .
3 To investigate , two WHIMS teams examined brain MRI scans from 1,403 women participating in the study .

3 ` Much to our surprise , something else was going on , ' said Susan Resnick of the National Institute on Aging 's Intramural Research Program , who led one of the studies .
2 Two memory-related brain regions , the frontal lobes and the hippocampus , were slightly but definitely smaller among women taking hormones .

1 ` These negative effects were really most evident in women who seemed to already be having some low cognitive function and possibly some memory problems , ' Resnick said .

1 Among the women with the smallest amount of vascular damage in their brains , she added , hormone therapy had no effect on the volume of these brain regions .

1 The degree of atrophy suggests a small but real increase in the dementia risk , said Resnick .
2 Starting hormone therapy likely accelerated the disease process in already-vulnerable women , she said .

2 In the second study , Laura Coker of Wake Forest University Health Sciences , in Winston-Salem , North Carolina , and colleagues , found that women taking estrogen and progestin had slightly larger areas of vascular damage in their brains than those on placebo .
3 The difference was n't significant , making it clear that vascular disease was n't behind the women 's increased dementia risk .

3 ` When this type of hormone therapy is initiated , you get volume loss in these key brain areas , and where there 's loss of volume , there 's loss of function , ' said Maki .

3 Investigators are looking into other formulations of estrogen and progestin , as well as very low doses of the hormones , to see if they might be safer than the formulation and relatively higher dose taken by participants in the Women 's Health Study .

3 In the 1990s , more than half of menopausal women said they had taken hormones at some point , and one-third took them for at least five years .
3 About 38 percent of women ages 50 to 70 were taking hormones , according to surveys at the time .

3 Prescriptions for the two most commonly prescribed hormone products , Premarin and Prempro , dropped from 61 million prescriptions in 2001 to 21 million in 2004 , according to the National Cancer Institute .
