3 Holder becomes attorney general - CNN.com .
1 WASHINGTON -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Eric Holder was sworn in Tuesday as U.S. attorney general , becoming the first African-American to lead the Department of Justice on a permanent basis .

3 Vice President Joe Biden administered the oath of office after reading the Justice Department 's mission statement .

3 ` There 's no mention of politics in that statement .
3 There 's no mention of ideology , ' Biden said .
3 ` And that 's as it should be . '

3 Loud cheers and long applause followed Holder 's taking of the oath .

3 ` Nowhere but in this great country could a person like me or the president hope to achieve the positions we are now so fortunate to hold , ' Holder said .

1 By a 75-21 vote , the U.S. Senate on Monday confirmed President Obama 's nomination of Holder .

1 Holder , 58 , is a former federal prosecutor and served as deputy attorney general during the Clinton administration .
3 He was briefly acting attorney general in early 2001 .

3 Holder takes over a Justice Department battered by a series of controversies during the Bush administration , from questions about how it laid legal groundwork for harsh interrogations of suspected terrorists to the firings of top federal prosecutors in several cities .

3 ` There 's a big job to do , and it 's going to be Mr. Holder 's duty to turn this department around and restore its credibility , ' said Sen. Dianne Feinstein , D-California .

3 During confirmation hearings , Republicans questioned his role in former President Bill Clinton 's widely criticized last-minute pardon of fugitive financier Marc Rich and questioned whether he would be independent of the White House .

3 Holder had a testy exchange with the Senate Judiciary Committee 's ranking Republican , Arlen Specter , who questioned Holder 's ` fitness ' for the office .

3 Holder shot back that Specter was ` getting close to the line in questioning my integrity , ' and Specter ultimately supported the nomination .
3 But Sen. Jim Bunning , R-Kentucky , cited the pardons and what he called Holder 's insufficient support for gun rights in opposing the nomination .

3 ` Mr. Holder is supportive of old ideas for gun control that have never made people safer at the expense of taking away their rights , ' Bunning said .

3 All 21 of the ` no ' votes were Republicans , but more than a dozen GOP senators joined Democrats in confirming Holder .
3 Sen. Christopher ` Kit ' Bond , R-Missouri , said Holder convinced him he would be ` looking forward to keeping the nation safe . '

3 Bond , the ranking Republican on the Intelligence Committee , raised concerns that the administration would seek to prosecute U.S. officials involved in using what the Bush administration called ` alternative ' interrogation techniques , measures that critics said involved the torture of prisoners in U.S. custody .

3 Holder unambiguously called the use of waterboarding against suspected terrorists a form of torture that violated the Geneva Conventions , but he has said that prosecuting intelligence officials who followed Justice Department guidance would be ` difficult . '

3 Bond said that while Holder 's answer focused on U.S. officials who were following the administration 's legal advice , ` I told him , and I believe he understood , that trying to prosecute these lawyers or political leaders would generate a political firestorm . '
