2 How I got taken by a work-at-home scam - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Thandi Zulu was single , pregnant and staying at a women 's shelter in Houston , Texas , when she received a mysterious letter one day .

3 A company told Zulu that she could make big money working at home in a data-entry job .
3 No resume or experience was needed .
2 All she had to do was pay a $ 200 fee .

3 You probably know what happened next .
3 Zulu called the company , gave them her checking account number and then tried to stop herself because she realized that she was doing something stupid .

2 ` The moment I did it , I said ` Damn , this is a scam , ' ' Zulu said of her 2001 nightmare .
2 ` I put them on hold , and then I tried to call them back , but nobody was home . '

3 Financial guru Bernard Madoff is grabbing headlines because he is accused of swindling wealthy clients out of $ 50 billion in a massive Ponzi scheme .
1 But work-at-home scammers are also plundering the paltry savings of ordinary people like Zulu every day .

1 Work-at-home-scams are on the rise , consumer watchdog groups say .

3 Scammers are busier than ever because tough economic times are making people more desperate to make money , says Christine Durst , CEO of Staffcentrix , a company specializing in home-based careers that sifts through home-based job leads every day .
3 iReport.com : Do you have a business at home ?

3 Durst says people are searching more for home-based jobs to save money on gas , clothing and child care .
3 Seniors are also looking to supplement their dwindling retirement income .

2 Durst says Staffcentrix researchers screen about 5,000 home jobs leads every week , and there is a ' 54-to-1 scam ratio . '

2 ` This means that for every 55 -LRB- work-at-home -RRB- leads we investigate , only one passes our legitimacy standards , ' she said .

3 Work-at-home scammers have traditionally used letters , television commercials and magazine advertisements .
1 But the Internet is becoming their favorite hunting ground , says Karen Hobbs , an attorney with the Federal Trade Commission , the federal agency responsible for consumer protection .

1 ` The Internet is a boon for this industry , because it 's a very cheap method for reaching consumers across the U.S. and the world , ' Hobbs said .

3 Catching work-at-home scammers is difficult because they use online facades and fake identities , and they constantly change names and mailing addresses , Hobbs says .

3 Those who are caught , though , can face serious time .
3 One work-at-home scammer was sentenced to 22 months in federal prison last year and ordered to pay $ 293,619 in restitution , Hobbs says .

3 But many scammers often act as if they 're too clever to get caught , Durst says .

3 ` We have over the years engaged in e-mails with them , and frankly , they 're quite cocky , ' Durst said .
3 ` It 's a craft for them .
3 They really pride themselves on understanding the human psyche . '

1 Be wary of ` palm trees , beaches and bikinis ' 

1 A consumer 's best defense against these clever predators is to develop their own guile , Durst says .
2 First , they should learn how to spot the warning signs of a work-at-home scammer .

3 Any advertisement that contains the phrase ` work at home ' is immediately suspect , because working at home is not a job title , Durst says .
3 Scammers use that phrase to bait their victims .

3 Other warning signs : You 're required to pay a fee for additional information , promises of ` unbelievable pay ! ' and claims that no experience is necessary or resume is needed .

1 Durst also says to watch out for ` palm trees , mansions , beaches and bikinis . '

1 ` If the ad you 're looking at features palm trees , a mansion and a Ferrari , it 's probably a scam .
3 Successful scammers often bag their prey by dangling enticing things in front of them , much like kidnappers do : ` If you get into my car , I 'll give you this candy bar , ' ' Durst said .

3 There are other rules people should follow as well : Never forward any money to an 'em ployer , ' never give personal information like a Social Security or bank account number over the Internet and never agree to cash checks for a percentage under any circumstances , consumer watchdog experts say .

3 Those who think they 've been scammed can still get help .
3 They can contact the FTC -LRB- http://www.ftc.gov/ -RRB- , the Better Business Bureau or the attorney general 's office in their state .

3 Why do people still fall for them ?

3 Despite the publicity generated by work-at-home scammers , why do so many people still fall for the scams ?

3 Some consumer watchdog groups say it 's too simplistic to say that people are gullible .
3 For example , many of the people who say they lost money in Madoff 's alleged Ponzi scheme were celebrity actors , writers , wealthy people -- people with abundant smarts .

3 Hobbs , from the FTC , says work-at-home scams appeal to that can-do spirit in Americans .

3 ` Americans have an entrepreneurial sprit , ' she said .
3 ` Many people will want to work independently , and they 're looking for those opportunities , especially in hard times . '

3 Durst , the CEO of Staffcentrix , cites another reason .

3 ` It 's desperation , ' she said .
3 ` It 's the same reason people play the lottery : They think today could be their lucky day . '

3 Zulu , the single mom , subscribes to Durst 's theory .

3 ` I did n't pay attention , ' she said .
3 ` When you 're desperate and you 're looking for something , you just go ahead .
3 I was pregnant , and I did n't have a job .
3 I wanted to work at home . '

3 Zulu says she finally found a legitimate job .
3 She moved to Laurel , Mississippi , and now sells medical and dental plans through a company called Ameriplan USA .

3 She even calls people and tells them that they can sell Ameriplan from their own homes .

3 But sometimes she runs into an unexpected problem .

3 ` They do n't believe me , ' she said .
3 ` People think we 're scammers . '
