3 Confessions of a hotel housekeeper - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- Budget Travel -RRB- -- Allison Rupp worked at Yellowstone National Park 's historic Old Faithful Inn in 2004 .

3 The best guests sleep in 

3 Three simple letters could inspire the ` Hallelujah ' chorus : DND , or do not disturb .
3 One sign hanging on a doorknob , and the day 's work was shortened by half an hour .
3 Two signs ?
3 Pure heaven , but only if they remained there until my eight-hour shift ended -- otherwise I 'd have to circle back and clean the rooms .

3 My daily list of 15 rooms -LRB- out of 325 in the hotel -RRB- consisted of DOs -LRB- due out -RRB- and Os -LRB- occupied -RRB- , which in housekeeping lingo meant the guests were scheduled to check out or were staying another night .
3 An occupied room was less labor-intensive -LRB- making the beds rather than changing the sheets saved me 20 minutes -RRB- , but there was always the possibility the guest would stay in the room while you worked .

3 One man watched me clean his entire room , from scrubbing the toilet to emptying the trash -- and told me at the end that I was ` building character . '
3 Condescension is not nearly as encouraging to a maid as a couple of dollars .

2 As long as it looked clean 

2 I cut corners everywhere I could .
1 Instead of vacuuming , I found that just picking up the larger crumbs from the carpet would do .
3 Rather than scrub the tub with hot water , sometimes it was just a spray-and-wipe kind of day .

1 After several weeks on the job , I discovered that the staff leader who inspected the rooms could n't tell the difference between a clean sink and one that was simply dry , so I would often just run a rag over the wet spots .
3 But I never skipped changing the sheets .
3 I would n't sink that low , no matter how lazy I was feeling .

1 A bacterial wonderland 

1 I was disgusted by the many guests I came in contact with through the things they left behind : the hairs on the pillow , the urine on the toilet seat , the half-eaten cookie , the stained sheets .
3 One woman had soiled her sheets so thoroughly that we had to toss them in a biohazard bag -- they could never be used again .

3 Rooms where young kids stayed were the worst , with food ground into the carpet and piles of used diapers in the trash .
3 That kind of demoralizing mess could take 45 minutes to clean up .
3 Most maids wore rubber gloves when they worked , but mine were too big , so I discarded them .
3 Unsurprisingly , I got the flu twice .

3 Not for love -- or money 

3 I did n't know maids received tips , so it took me weeks to realize that the coins left in rooms were an intentional gift .
1 My tips were paltry : I almost never received more than $ 1 , and at times guests left religious pamphlets .
3 One day , however , I was shocked to find a crisp $ 100 bill lying on a table .
3 Although the generous tip put a little spring in my step and compelled me to do a better job that day , it did n't change my work ethic for long .

3 I apologize to you now if you ever stayed in one of my rooms .
3 You deserved better .
2 But if housekeepers were paid more than minimum wage -- and the tips were a bit better -- I might have cleaned your toilet rather than just flushed it .
