1 U.N. report : Uranium traces found at site in Syria - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- The U.N. nuclear agency said it found traces of uranium from samples retrieved at a Syrian site suspected to be the location of a nuclear site , according to a report posted Thursday on the Institute for Science and International Security Web site .

1 The site was bombed by Israeli aircraft in September 2007 , and the report said Syria says the missiles that destroyed the building at the site were the source of the uranium particles .

1 The International Atomic Energy Agency 's report said that the uranium particles ` are of a type not included in Syria 's declared inventory of nuclear material ' and that ` there is a low probability that the uranium was introduced by the use of missiles . '

3 But ` the presence of the uranium particles , ' site imagery and procurement information ` need to be fully understood , ' it said .

3 Syria needs to provide more information and documentation about ` the use and nature ' of a building that was bombed and its procurement activities , the report said .
1 And Syria ` needs to be transparent by providing access to other locations alleged to be related ' to the site .

3 In the report , IAEA Director General Mohamed ElBaradei urged Israel and other states to make relevant information available to the agency and agree to the IAEA sharing the information with Syria .

3 In November , the agency asked Israel to provide information in response to Syria 's claims that its munitions could have been the source of the uranium particles .

3 Israel said in a December 24 letter that ` it rejects Syrian claims on the matter ' and that ` Israel could not have been the source of the uranium particles found on the site of the nuclear reactor . '

1 In November , ElBaradei confirmed that his agency found traces of ` man-made uranium ' at a site in eastern Syria .
3 IAEA inspectors collected soil samples from the Al-Kibar site in June .

3 ElBaradei said at the time that a report would be issued .

3 He added that the findings do not necessarily mean the Syrians were building a reactor and cautioned against rushing to judgment .
1 But he urged more ` transparency ' from the Syrian government in its dealings with the IAEA and deplored the ` unilateral ' Israeli bombing of the Syrian site .

3 Syrian authorities have reacted angrily to accusations that they were building a nuclear reactor .
3 Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Moualem suggested that any trace of uranium unearthed at the military site in eastern Syria came from Israeli bombs .
