3 Iraqi PM announces diplomatic push - CNN.com .
1 BAGHDAD , Iraq -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Eager to develop close ties with countries around the world and in its own backyard , Iraq continues to press ahead with diplomatic activity .

1 The government said on Thursday that Iraq 's prime minister , Nuri al-Maliki , is meeting next week with the leaders of Germany and Italy and with the pope .

1 The government also announced the meeting in Baghdad on Thursday between al-Maliki and Saad Hariri , a top Lebanese lawmaker .

3 Al-Maliki 's European trip will begin on Monday in Germany .
2 He and German Chancellor Angela Merkel will discuss strengthening economic and security ties between their two countries .

3 The Iraqi prime minister , who will be accompanied by a delegation , will also meet with representatives of German companies that have expressed interest and willingness to enter the Iraqi market .

2 Al-Maliki is to visit Italy next Thursday to discuss cooperation and investment with Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi .

1 And he 'll meet with Pope Benedict XVI on Friday and brief the pontiff on the steps the Iraqi government is taking to promote equality and national reconciliation .

1 Iraq has been urging other countries to establish ties with it and has urged the Arab world to name ambassadors and open their embassies in the country .

3 Sunni Arab countries had been reluctant to restore close ties because of the ongoing warfare , and have been cool to what is a Shiite-dominated government in Iraq .

3 Iraq , which is majority Shiite , and Iran , which is predominantly Shiite , are developing close ties .
3 They have ambassadors in both countries and al-Maliki and Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad have made state visits .

1 Iraq is also making strides in developing ties with other neighbors -- the largely Sunni Arab world -- and other Muslim nations .

3 Al-Maliki earlier this month visited the United Arab Emirates , which forgave the nearly $ 7 billion owed to it by Baghdad and agreed to re-establish diplomatic relations with Iraq .

2 Al-Maliki this year has also visited neighboring Jordan and Jordan 's King Abdullah is planning a trip .
3 Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan , Iraq 's northern neighbor , made a trip to Baghdad last week .

3 Also , Kuwait 's news agency reported that the country , which borders Iraq in the south , is soon is expected to name an ambassador to Baghdad .
3 As for Hariri , he is the leader of the parliamentary majority in Lebanon -- a diverse country with Sunnis , Shiites and Christians that , like Iraq , has been beset by sectarian warfare .

3 Hariri said Iraq and Lebanon have ` similar internal struggles ' and that both countries are facing ` interference from countries we all know , ' regarded as a reference to Syria and Iran .

3 Hariri said he wanted to show solidarity with Iraq , praised al-Maliki 's plans to rebuild the country , called for investment in Iraq , and underscored the importance that democracy succeed in both places .
