2 Iraqi leaders welcome U.S. troop withdrawal plan - CNN.com .
2 BAGHDAD , Iraq -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Iraqi leaders are applauding President Obama 's plan to withdraw most U.S. troops from the country by August 2010 .

1 Iraq 's Sunni Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi 's office released a statement Saturday saying he received a call from U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton informing him of Obama 's announcement of the withdrawal .

1 ` Mr. al-Hashimi welcomed the American administration 's commitment to withdrawing its troops from Iraq according to the agreed-on schedule and stressed that every possible effort should be exerted to increase the readiness of Iraqi security forces and improve their performance , ' the statement said .

3 Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki said Obama called him to tell him about the plan Friday .

1 The prime minister said Iraqi security forces have proven their ability to provide security across Iraq ` which qualifies them to take over full security responsibilities from American forces . '

2 Obama said Friday he plans to withdraw most U.S. troops from Iraq by the end of August 2010 .

1 Between 35,000 and 50,000 troops will remain to help execute a drawdown plan under which all U.S. forces will be out of Iraq by December 31 , 2011 .

3 That was a deadline set under an agreement the Bush administration signed with the Iraqi government last year .

2 ` Let me say this as plainly as I can : By August 31 , 2010 , our combat mission in Iraq will end , ' Obama said in a speech at the Marine Corps ' Camp Lejeune , North Carolina .

3 Meanwhile , Iraqi President Jalal Talabani visited neighboring Iran , where the supreme leader warned him that the United States is planning a prolonged stay in Iraq .

3 ` Occupying military forces are laying the groundwork for a long-lasting stay in Iraq , and that is a great danger , ' Ayatollah Ali Khamenei told Talabani on Saturday , according to the state-run Islamic Republic News Agency .

3 ` Occupying military forces should leave Iraq as soon as possible , ' Khamenei said , according to IRNA .
3 ` Every day their exit is delayed will be a detriment to the Iraqi nation . '

3 On Friday , Talabani met with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who described Tehran 's ties with Iraq as ` growing and deep , ' according to IRNA .
3 The two leaders vowed to expand their political , cultural and security relationships .
