3 Protest in Ireland of government handling of economy - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Hundreds of thousands of workers filled the streets of Dublin on Saturday to protest the government response to Ireland 's economic downturn .

1 Up to 120,000 people attended the peaceful demonstration that included a march from Parnell Square to Merrion Square , Dublin police said .
1 No arrests were made , police said .

3 The protest was organized by the Irish Congress of Trade Unions -LRB- ICTU -RRB- .
1 Workers from Waterford Crystal and SR Technic , two companies facing economic problems amid the recession , led the march .

1 Ireland 's economy was booming until last year when it was hit with the most ` profound global economic crisis in seventy years , ' due in large part to a significant decline in the housing and construction markets , according to the government 's Web site .

3 David Begg , general secretary of ICTU , told CNN affiliate TV3 that he hopes ` the government is looking at what 's happening here today and will conclude indeed that it does have a strong measure of public support and will engage with us and try to deal with what is an unprecedented problem with our country . '

3 In a message posted on ICTU 's Web site , Begg said this was the first action in the union group 's campaign ` and other action will follow around the country , as required . '

3 The ICTU has posted 10 key initiatives for a plan for national recovery on its Web site , including protecting jobs , tackling unemployment and restoring consumer confidence .

3 Ireland 's government responded to the ICTU 's plan , saying it was ` entirely consistent ' with that of its own proposal .

3 ` In particular , it reflects the Government 's view that an integrated national response to the current crisis is not only desirable but essential if there is to be a sufficient impetus and coherence of approach to meet the scale of the challenge , ' the government statement said .

3 The government recognizes that ` the measures which it is taking are difficult and , in some cases , painful , ' and ` is also convinced , however , that they are both necessary and fair , ' the statement said .
