3 Netanyahu : Iran top threat in Israeli history - CNN.com .
1 JERUSALEM -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Benjamin Netanyahu , the head of the conservative Likud Party , has been chosen to form Israel 's next government , Israeli President Shimon Peres announced Friday .

3 At a joint news conference with Peres , Netanyahu said he accepted the task and he is willing to work with the moderate parties of Labor , led by Ehud Barak , and Kadima , headed by Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni .

3 ` We have different approaches in different areas , but we are all together in our desire to act for the good of the state , ' Netanyahu said .
3 ` We will be able to find the common ground to lead the state toward security , prosperity and peace . '

1 He said Israeli leaders need to unite as the country faces ` great challenges , ' particularly from Iran , which he said ` is developing nuclear weapons and poses the biggest threat to Israel since the war of independence . '

3 A U.N. report released this week found that Iran has enough uranium for a single nuclear weapon , but the uranium has not been enriched to make it weapons-grade .
3 Iran consistently has denied the weapons allegations , calling them ` baseless , ' and said that data that indicated otherwise was ` fabricated . '

1 To become Israel 's next prime minister , Netanyahu must form a coalition within six weeks , or the process will start all over .

3 The decision comes after Avigdor Lieberman , head of the right-wing Yisrael Beytenu party , said he would recommend Netanyahu for the post , but only if he promises to form a ` broad-based ' coalition government .

3 In last week 's parliamentary elections , no single party won the minimum 61 seats needed to form a government .
2 That means a government of two or more parties -- or coalition government -- is inevitable .

1 The ruling Kadima Party won the most seats in the Knesset , Israel 's parliament .
1 But Kadima received just one more seat than Netanyahu 's Likud Party .

3 The strong showing of other right-wing parties -- including Yisrael Beytenu and the Orthodox Shas movement -- could give Netanyahu a better chance of forming a coalition government .

3 Speaking to fellow Likud members Monday , Netanyahu expressed confidence that he has enough support to emerge as Israel 's next prime minister .

3 ` I plan to form a government as soon as possible with our natural partners , ' the former Israeli prime minister said .
3 ` We have a government in our hands , but we want a broader one . '

2 He added that he will negotiate with other parties , including Kadima , ` to form a broad national unity government . '

3 Livni took over as Kadima leader after Prime Minister Ehud Olmert stepped down from the post amid corruption investigations .
3 Livni 's failure to assemble a ruling coalition at that time triggered last week 's elections .

3 Netanyahu , 59 , is a former Israeli soldier who served in the elite commando unit Sayeret Matkal .
3 He was one of a dozen Israeli commandos who stormed a Belgian aircraft hijacked by Palestinian terrorists in 1972 and helped rescue 140 hostages .

3 After his stint as prime minister from 1996 to 1999 , he served in the Cabinet of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon , then Likud Party leader , but resigned in 2005 , saying he disagreed with Sharon 's plan to remove Israeli troops and settlements from Gaza .
3 Sharon left Likud and formed Kadima as a more centrist party .

3 Netanyahu has supported the expansion of Israeli settlements on the West Bank and has opposed making further territorial concessions in hope of ending the decades-old Israeli-Palestinian conflict .

3 He has been reminding the public that he warned that Palestinian militants in Gaza could launch rockets at Israeli cities such as Ashkelon and Ashdod -- which has happened and led to Israel 's recent military operation in Gaza .

3 His Likud Party had a strong showing in last week 's election , more than doubling the number of seats it holds in the Knesset .
3 Netanhayu said that showing proves that voters have rejected Kadima 's leadership , and he predicted right-leaning parties will be able to form a majority .

3 ` With God 's help , I shall head the coming government , ' he said .
2 ` I am sure that I can manage to put together a good , broad-based and stable government that will be able to deal with the security crisis and the economic crisis . '
