2 1,800-year-old marble head unearthed in Israel - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Archaeologists in Israel have discovered what they believe is the bust of a Roman boxer from the second or third century .

3 ` It seems that what we have here is a unique find , ' the two directors of the excavation said in a statement released Monday by the Israel Antiquities Authority .

2 The figurine , made of marble , comes from a time when ` the art of Roman sculpture reached its zenith , ' Doron Ben-Ami and Yana Tchekhanovets said .

3 It 's tiny -- only about 6 centimeters high by 4 centimeters wide , Ben-Ami told CNN .
3 ` That 's why it is so impressive .
2 It 's so small , but still you can see every little detail on the marble , ' he said .

3 The archaeologists believe a merchant family from the eastern part of the Roman Empire most likely passed down the ` precious object ' through the generations until the fourth or fifth century , when an unfortunate family member had it with him at a public building , perhaps a hostel -- and an earthquake struck .

3 A team has been digging up the building in the City of David , part of Jerusalem .

3 The object is part of the ` silent testimony of the drama that occurred in this impressive structure prior to its collapse , ' the Israel Antiquities Authority said .

1 The ` short hair style , the prominent lobes and curves of the ears , as well as the almond-shaped eyes suggest that the object most likely portrays an athlete , probably a boxer , ' the statement said .

3 Little bits of the sculpture have broken off .
3 It is missing part of the nose and mouth , Ben-Ami said .

1 ` The high level of finish on the figurine is extraordinary , ' Ben-Ami and Tchekhanovets said in their statement .

3 They added : ` To the best of our knowledge , to date no similar artifact made of marble -LRB- or any other kind of stone -RRB- bearing the same image that was just found has been discovered in excavations elsewhere in the country . '

3 A few similar artifacts made of bronze have been found ` at different sites in the country and they have been found in large numbers in different places throughout the Roman Empire , where the overwhelming majority of them date to the third century CE -LRB- the Roman period -RRB- . '

3 Two tiny holes in the figurine suggest it was used as a suspended weight together with a balance scale , the archaeologists said .

1 Last month , the excavation team at this same site discovered ` one of the largest and most impressive coin hoards ever found in Jerusalem , ' the Israel Antiquities Authority said .
2 ` It consists of 264 gold coins and was found at about the same time as a gold earring , inlaid with expensive pearls and remarkably well preserved . '

3 ` Every single object has a story behind it , ' Ben-Ami said in an interview with CNN .
3 ` Behind every object there are people .
3 And , for us , the most important thing is to try to tell the stories behind these items . '
