1 Investigation into Qantas jet emergency begins - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- The Australian air safety agency is investigating Saturday the emergency landing of a Qantas Boeing 747 in the Philippines after a hole in the fuselage made the plane lose cabin pressure .

1 Officials from two U.S. transportation agencies said initial findings indicate that no act of terrorism was involved .

2 According to early reports , a section of the fuselage separated in the forward cargo compartment , the Australian Transport Safety Bureau said in a written statement .

1 ` Our preliminary checks on this indicate that there was no corrosion anywhere near where this hole occurred in the aircraft , ' Geoff Dixon , Qantas ' CEO , said in Sydney .

2 Video of the plane after it landed Friday showed a large hole where the leading edge of the wing attaches to the fuselage .
3 Watch footage from the plane 

1 The section of the fuselage separated at about 29,000 feet , and the cabin began to rapidly decompress , the safety agency said in the statement released Friday .

1 The crew brought the plane down to 10,000 feet and diverted the aircraft to Manila International Airport , where it landed safely about 11:15 a.m. -LRB- 11:15 p.m. ET Thursday -RRB- .

3 The airline said it received no reports of any injuries among the 346 passengers and 19 crew members .
3 Watch reaction of passengers to incident 

3 Dixon called the incident a ` hugely serious issue ' and one that investigators would sort out .
3 ` We ca n't speculate on what happened . '

3 Oxygen masks were deployed during the emergency .
3 Passengers said their ears popped because of the plane 's rapid descent to a lower altitude .

3 ` There was an almighty crack , ' one passenger said .
3 ` We dropped a bit in the air , but other than that , it was fine . '

3 ` There was a big bang , ' said another .
2 ` I knew there was a hole somewhere , but I did n't know what was going on . '
3 iReport.com : See photos of the ` nasty ' damage 

3 The Boeing 747-400 flight originated in London .
3 It had just taken off from Hong Kong for Melbourne , Australia , when it was forced to land .

1 A U.S. Transportation Security Administration official , who asked not to be identified because his agency is not leading the probe into the incident , said a preliminary investigation found no connection to terrorism .

3 The damage appears to be related to a mechanical issue , based on examination of the aircraft on the ground , the official said .

3 The official said a TSA representative based in Manila is assisting in the investigation .

1 The National Transportation Safety Board also is sending investigators , and an NTSB spokesman said the agency also does not suspect terrorism .
