3 Paris Jewish quarter struggles with change - CNN.com .
3 PARIS , France -LRB- AP -RRB- -- The kosher pizzeria on the rue des Rosiers smelled like hot cheese , and Jewish teens leaned skullcap-covered heads into the doorway , hoping to order one of Moshe Benjamin Engelberg 's thin-crusted pizzas .

3 But Engelberg shook his head .
1 After 27 years , he has lost faith in his neighborhood , home to French Jews since the Middle Ages , and is shutting down , depriving the rue des Rosiers district of one of its remaining Old World-style kosher restaurants .

3 The disappearance of a dingy pizzeria , its faded portraits of rabbis hanging crooked on brown-stained walls , where men recently swayed back and forth under prayer shawls between pizza courses , was a blow to those fearing the area has become a lifeless , polished museum .

1 The district has been losing a vital chunk of its Jewish character to high-end designer labels in a slow transformation that residents say is reaching a turning point .
1 Local officials estimate that as many as 20 Jewish shops in the compact quarter have given way to clothing stores in the past four years .

2 ` What remains is a sort of optical illusion , ' said Jean Laloum , a historian at France 's National Center for Scientific Research , and contributor to a city-sponsored history of the surrounding neighborhood .

2 ` Tourists come to visit a sort of ghetto with an identity ... which they read about in the guidebooks , but which today , in reality is gone . '

1 The rue des Rosiers quarter , nestled in the chic Marais district north of the Seine River , has been home to French Jews for centuries .

3 Until recently , this former stomping ground for poor Eastern European and then North African Jewish immigrants was a densely packed network of institutions and traditional shops attracting Jewish shoppers from Paris and environs -- and tourists from around the world -- despite residents progressively migrating away .

3 Even the Nazi occupation could n't snuff out the area 's reputation as the city 's Jewish pole of reference .

3 More than 1,000 people from roughly nine small streets centered around rue des Rosiers were deported to death camps during World War II .
3 Others were allowed to remain if they abided by discriminatory codes , such as curfews and wearing a yellow star .
3 Today France has western Europe 's largest Jewish community of approximately 500,000 .

3 Known as the ` neighborhood guardian ' in the local Lubavitch community because he keeps the keys to a nearby synagogue , Engelberg recently fielded protests against his departure , and concerns he was abandoning those left behind .

3 ` It 's very delicate , ' he acknowledged .
3 ` People do n't want it to change . '

3 After the city required Engelberg to make costly upgrades to the restaurant , he consulted a rabbi for advice , and concluded that renovating -- a concept he did n't believe in anyway -- was n't worth the trouble .

3 ` It 's not the feeling of the ghetto anymore , it 's the feeling of something modern , without a soul , ' said Engelberg .

3 Instead , he plans to sell to the highest bidder , and perhaps open up another pizzeria in a working class neighborhood in northern Paris .

3 He is not alone .

2 The emblematic Yiddish diner Jo Goldenberg 's , which attracted visitors from all over the world and was targeted in a bombing in 1982 , shut down two years ago , and will most likely be replaced by a designer clothing store , according to Franck Desnoyers , charged with selling the space .
2 Across the street , a trendy H&M clothing store will open this fall , confirmed the district 's Socialist mayor , Dominique Bertinotti .

3 The rue des Rosiers is part of the larger surrounding Marais district -- also Paris ' main gay neighborhood -- which has brought in growing numbers of tourists and a French breed of impeccably dressed , casual-chic shoppers attracted to its ornate , medieval streets spared from the industrial bulldozer that carved through most of Paris in the 1800s .

1 While this shift began back in the 1980s , the rue des Rosiers kept its cultural identity relatively intact -- until recently .

3 Land values in the Marais skyrocketed , and demand rose 30 percent in just a year or two , said real estate manager and municipal councilman for the district , Jean-Michel Sokol .
3 That was due in part to a city-driven renovation project .

3 Costly required upgrades were enough incentive for those close to retirement to sell or lease the family business sooner .

3 As their range of kosher food choice narrows , most Jewish Parisian shoppers head elsewhere , further pushing remaining merchants like Fortune Benchetrit to sell off her family 's 45-year-old Jewish grocery store on neighboring rue des Ecouffes .

3 The community has not dealt easily with the shift .

2 ` They destroyed the oldest Jewish quarter in France in a matter of five years , ' said Michel Kalifa , a kosher butcher and president of an association fighting to hold onto the area 's Jewishness .

3 However , others see the affair as a compromise : a folkloric past exchanged for a reduced yet active population , and an updated facade .

3 ` Social evolution is not a problem , ' said the president of the Orthodox Jewish community , Daniel Altmann .
3 ` There are enough services to permit people who want to express their spiritual life to do so , and that 's the objective . '

3 A nucleus of Jews still make the trip to the Marais to shop for Jewish holidays or an exceptional grocery run .
3 And the Orthodox community , though shrunk in size , maintains Jewish schools and serves 200 families from its synagogue in the neighborhood .

3 To those Jewish merchants who remain , local mayor Bertinotti recommends that they win back lost customers by improving the quality of their wares .

3 ` We have to stop with this idea that the Jewish identity comes down to a few shops , ' she added .

3 The mayor also said she hoped to install a Holocaust memorial library in the former Jo Goldenberg diner .

3 Locals like Ernest Buchwald , vice president of the Paris Jewish Memorial Association , who has lived in the neighborhood for 70 years , said they understood why many were nostalgic for the charm of another era .

3 But not all have Buchwald 's memories of those humbler times , when the neighborhood 's poor families slept and worked in the same cramped room without heat and water .

3 ` When we remember , we think of the good things , because we were young , but they forget -- there was no comfort , ' he said .

3 ` It 's normal that we transform all this , ' he said .
3 ` We ca n't always stay in the Middle Ages . '

2 Leaning forward , he winked , and nodded toward the luxury clothing shops now entirely covering the western half of the street .
3 ` You know , the boutiques that are here , they 're Jews who run them , ' he said .

2 As he spoke , Zapa , a luxury clothing store that opened seven months ago a few stores down , was blasting a Hebrew pop song over the radio .
