1 GOP rising star Jindal 's speech a ` coming-out party ' - CNN.com .
1 WASHINGTON -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Thrust into the spotlight as a Republican rising star , Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal has been depicted as an up-and-comer capable of helping reshape the party and jockeying for the 2012 GOP presidential nomination .

1 And now , Jindal 's party is putting him on a national platform , awarding the once little-known congressman the political plum of delivering the Republican 's televised response to President Barack Obama 's address to Congress Tuesday night .

3 ` The speech is very important .
1 This is his coming-out party , ' said G. Pearson Cross , head of the University of Louisiana 's political science department , who has observed Jindal 's political rise .
3 ` His speech will put a face on the name . '

2 And put a fresh face on the Republican Party .

2 The GOP , still reeling from election beatings in 2006 and 2008 , is looking to revamp itself by rebuilding from the states up and reaching out to young voters .
1 At 37 , the popular Louisiana governor embodies that mission , experts say .

3 ` The job is very important in framing the Republican message really for the rest of the year , ' said Nick Ayers , executive director of the Republican Governors Association , referring to the response speech Tuesday .
3 ` Gov. Jindal provides the outside-the-beltway , not D.C. , perspective .
3 And he 's one of the smartest policy minds in the country .
3 He 's not perceived as a overtly political person . '

3 Being tapped for this prime-time speech , a job normally for congressional leaders , has helped to elevate Jindal 's standing in the party dominated by old pros , including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Minority Leader John Boehner , as well as personalities , such as Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin and California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger .

3 ` It 's time for another generation to come into play , ' said GOP strategist Ed Rollins , a CNN contributor .
3 ` A lot of Republicans came of age under Reagan , which was 25 years ago ... and we just have n't built on that with young people . '

3 Rollins , a veteran of the Reagan White House , called Jindal , a first-generation American born to Punjabi parents , a ` young dynamic governor ' with ` appeal to younger voters . '

3 The governor is a ` textbook Republican ' who is ` scary smart , ' Cross added .

3 And , having an accomplished minority figure represent your party 's message does n't hurt , he said .

3 ` The Republican Party very strongly wants to have a new look , ' he said .
3 ` They 're saying , ` We 're not just a party of old white guys ' and he 's part of that appeal . '

3 Born Piyush Jindal in Louisiana 's capital , Baton Rouge , he called winning his first election in 2004 to the U.S. House of Representatives ` the ultimate embodiment of the American dream . '
3 He was only 33 .

3 By age 28 , the former Rhodes Scholar had already served in three high-profile jobs , including head of Louisiana 's Department of Health and Hospitals and president of the University of Louisiana system .

3 Aside from his rapidly paced career moves , his ethnic background and the making of his American identity have been points of interest .
3 Jindal , while his legal name remains Piyush , publicly goes by ` Bobby ' -- a nickname he reportedly picked up from the youngest ` Brady Bunch ' character as a preschooler .
3 A Hindu by birth , he converted to Catholicism after his grandfather 's death .

3 ` Coming from a family of recent immigrants reflects the opportunities in this country , and that 's a principle the Republican Party represents , ' said David Winston , a Republican pollster and strategist .

3 Jindal , in a statement , said he is looking forward to hearing Obama 's address and that he 's honored to be delivering the Republican response immediately following the president 's speech .

3 ` Here in Louisiana , we have first-hand experience with reforming government and cutting taxes to stimulate our economy in uncertain times .
3 This is a terrific opportunity to talk about our great state to the nation . '

3 But Democrats say the problem is the message , not the messenger .

3 ` It does n't matter if it 's Gov. Jindal or Gov. Palin or Mitch McConnell , ' said Democratic strategist Chris Kofinis .
3 ` At the end of the day , the policies they support are not the policies the American people support . '

3 Obama is expected to focus on the economic crisis and the $ 787 billion stimulus bill among other issues during his first congressional address , and Jindal will likely rebut with a push for fiscal responsibility , Kofinis said .

3 ` He 'll probably flash back to the past , talking about fiscal responsibility and ignoring the fact that over the last eight years the Republicans have been the poster child for fiscal irresponsibility , ' he said .

3 The governor has been a vocal conservative critic of the stimulus package , highlighting what he considers waste at a White House meeting with governors on Monday .
3 Jindal spoke to a large group of reporters after the session Monday , noting items such as $ 1 billion in added spending for the national census and $ 50 million in federal spending for the arts .
3 iReport.com : What do you want to hear from Obama and Jindal ?

3 It 's ` not apparent to me why they had to be in the stimulus package , ' said Jindal , while adding that his fellow Republican governors nevertheless wanted to give Obama ` every opportunity ' to succeed in sparking an economic recovery .

3 Jindal has announced plans to reject $ 100 million of stimulus funding for his state , saying it would require Louisiana to change its unemployment laws .
3 Several other governors have expressed similar concerns .

3 Jindal made history in 2007 when , at 36 , he was elected the nation 's first Indian-American governor and the youngest in office .
3 And he drew major national attention last year when he was widely thought by pundits to be on then-Republican presidential John McCain 's short list for vice president .

2 ` All the elements of who he is make him an attractive figure , particularly with the difficulty Republicans had with attracting the youth vote , ' Winston said .
2 ` Having a younger member of the party is something to be desired . '

3 Palin got the job , though Jindal did not slip into obscurity with many analysts still looking to him as a potential presidential candidate .
3 And although Jindal has said he 's focused on his job as governor , his presidential ambitions are ` one of the worst kept secrets in Louisiana , ' Kofinis said .

3 Jindal was expected to headline the Republican National Convention in August , but canceled to oversee his state 's response to Hurricane Gustav .
3 iReport.com : How are you coping with the economy ?

3 His state still recovering from Hurricane Katrina , Jindal ordered a mandatory evacuation and called up some 3,000 National Guardsmen to coordinate the exodus .

3 Jindal 's actions were in stark contrast to former Louisiana Gov. Kathleen Blanco 's shaky and largely criticized reaction to Katrina .
3 The little-known Jindal , who narrowly lost the 2003 gubernatorial election to Blanco , won the post outright in the 2007 primary with 54 percent of the vote .

3 Republicans in Washington took notice .
3 Boehner , R-Ohio , and McConnell , R-Kentucky , support the idea of Jindal serving as the official GOP spokesman Tuesday night .

3 ` Gov. Jindal embodies what I have long said : The Republican Party must not be simply the party of opposition , but the party of better solutions , ' Boehner said when he announced that Jindal was slated to give the response .

3 A recent CNN\/Opinion Research Corporation survey indicates that Mike Huckabee and Sarah Palin top the list of potential 2012 Republican presidential hopefuls , attracting about one-third of Republicans and independents who lean toward the GOP , from among those surveyed .
3 The survey is an early measure of possible support , not a horse-race snapshot .

3 Jindal , falling behind former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney , former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani , grabbed the backing of 19 percent .
3 Florida Gov. Charlie Crist drew 7 percent .

3 Analysts say Jindal lacked name recognition .
3 Tuesday night 's speech will raise his profile .

3 As for 2012 , Winston said it 's too early to know who the front-runners will be , but expect to see more of Jindal .

3 ` We 'll see more of him , but along with other folks , ' said Winston , pointing out Giuliani , Palin and Republican National Committee Chairman Michael Steele .
3 ` Without a clear central person , i.e. George Bush , there are a lot of people who step forward to determine which direction the party will go . '
