2 Wounded vet goes from ` life slipping away ' to soap opera star - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- When J.R. Martinez returned from serving in Iraq , he never thought he 'd see his name on the marquee at the local restaurant -- but there it was , a welcome-home banner at the Applebee 's in Dalton , Georgia .

3 He certainly never imagined he 'd be starring in a popular daytime soap opera , either .

3 But Martinez , 25 , has never let the severe burns he received while serving in the United States Army stop him .

3 He spoke with CNN 's Nicole Lapin about overcoming odds and being an inspiration for young people .

3 The following is an edited transcript of the interview .

3 Nicole Lapin : You told your mom you 'd come back in one piece .
3 You 're obviously back in one piece .
2 You came back burned .
3 What happened ?

3 J.R. Martinez : Well , April 5 , 2003 , I was driving a Humvee through a city called Karbala in Iraq .
1 My job in the military -- in the Army -- was infantry , and as we were driving , my front left tire hit a land mine and I was trapped inside the vehicle .

3 The other three guys , the other three soldiers walked away with minor injuries , which I 'm thankful for every single day .
1 I was trapped inside the vehicle for about ten minutes , conscious and can literally see my life slipping away from me .
3 You know , my mother is my best friend and I kind of had the visual of my mother , and them handing her a flag and I thought to myself , that 's not something I want to put my mother through .

3 So it 's one of those things where we do n't know how strong we are until we 're faced with things in life and I got through it .

3 Lapin : You did .

3 -LRB- A viewer -RRB- has a question for you about what kept you going .
3 She says , ` First of all , I want to sincerely say thank you for defending our freedom .
3 My question is , during the time of the explosion , how did you keep yourself going ? '

3 Martinez : Well , when I was a young child , one of my sisters passed away from an illness she was born with .
3 She was born in Central America and I was born here in the United States and I never met her , but I always felt the connection throughout my whole childhood .
3 I felt the connection with my sister and I was confused as to why .

2 And the day of my injury when I was inside the vehicle and I can literally see my life slipping away , an actual visual of my sister came to me and told me I was going to be OK and told me I 'd be fine .
3 And after that sweet whisper went away , they pulled me out of the vehicle and got me immediately into the medical team 's hands .

3 So I guess you could say faith , my sister , my mother -- all the things that kind of kept me grounded as a young child that my mother instilled in me at a young age : to be strong and to hold on to certain things in life because they 'll get you through .

3 Like I said , it 's something that 's hard to explain , but I know a lot of guys that have been injured in the military or people that have been injured outside the military in the civilian world .
3 And I am just like , ` How did you make it ? '
3 It 's just like , we do n't know , we just hang in there .

3 Lapin : You just do it .

3 Martinez : Yeah , you just do it .
3 All of us had it inside us .
3 We just do n't know it until we 're faced with it and that 's when the true strength really shows .

2 Lapin : Well , you went through 32 surgeries over 34 months .
3 Was there ever a time where you said , ` Woe is me ' ?

3 Martinez : Yeah , I 'm definitely human and there are a lot of bad days .
2 Even being in the soap opera world , there are still days where you wake up and you 're like , ` Here we go again . '

3 Another obstacle -LRB- is -RRB- where I have to go into the public and show my face and catch those looks of people here in New York .
3 It 's one of those things where you 've just got to get through it , and you 've got to fight the obstacles and you 've got to be strong and you say , ` You know what ?
3 I have hope and I believe and I 'm never going to quit . '

3 And if you do those things , you 'll be surprised where your life can take you because , as I said in one of the interviews I did , only in America where this can happen , you can go from losing your life to now being on a soap opera .

1 Lapin : We 're looking at a picture of you in a soap opera right now , ` All My Children . '
3 J.R. , sitting in that hospital bed watching soap operas with your mother , did you ever think you 'd actually be in one ?

3 Martinez : You know , it 's funny .
3 You 've got to be careful what you wish for in life .
3 When I was in the hospital I could n't move .
3 I could n't do anything .
3 I was basically at the hands of medical staff and my mother , and every night my mother would watch novela , the Spanish soap opera .

3 And there was n't nothing I could do about it .
3 So I just sat there .
3 And finally I just got to a point where I 'm just going to take it in and watch TV with her .
3 And one day out of a joke I said , ` One day I 'm going to be on a soap opera , mom . '

1 All through my recovery I started to do motivational speaking .
2 I became a spokesman for a non-profit called the Coalition to Salute America 's Heroes , which helps wounded troops who return from Iraq and Afghanistan .
3 And I always thought to myself , ` In the midst of all this , I would maybe love to touch that world some day , just to kind of play with it for a little bit . '
3 And here I am .

3 Lapin : So you had a little premonition .

3 Martinez : Yeah , so you 've got to be careful what you wish for in life because you never know what can happen .

1 Now , in the role in ` All My Children , ' it 's a veteran who falls in love and because of his disfigurement , he does n't know if that person is going to accept him .
3 He kind of feels that it 's best for her to move on with her life and not to be a part of his and his struggle .

3 Lapin : -LRB- Another viewer -RRB- has a question .
3 He wants to know , ` Your story is amazing .
3 I wanted to ask you if it has been tough to relive the terrible pain of your real life during your filming of ` All My Children ' ? '

3 Martinez : A lot of us , we go through things in life sometimes and we do n't want to sit there and go back to remember it , but it 's good to go back and remember it and it 's good to talk about it , whether it 's to yourself or a piece of paper or whether it 's to an audience or a camera like I am doing right now .
