1 Karadzic arrest ` like catching Bin Laden ' - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Radovan Karadzic 's arrest after a decade-long hunt is the equivalent of catching Europe 's Osama bin Laden , the U.S. diplomat who brokered peace in Bosnia says .

1 Richard Holbrooke , who negotiated the 1995 Dayton Peace Agreement , led the chorus of congratulations from around the globe telling reporters it was ` a historic day . '

2 ` One of the worst men in the world , the Osama bin Laden of Europe , has finally been captured .
3 A major , major thug has been removed from the public scene . '

3 ` He was at large because the Yugoslav army was protecting him .
3 But this guy in my view was worse than Milosevic -LRB- Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic -RRB- ... he was the intellectual leader , ' Holbrooke told CNN .
3 Watch Holdbrooke talk about the arrest 

3 David Miliband , Britain 's Foreign Secretary , said it would ` pave the way for a brighter , European future for Serbia and the region . '

3 The White House released a statement congratulating the government of Serbia , and thanked the people who arrested Karadzic on a bus in Belgrade for their ` professionalism and courage . '

3 Paddy Ashdown , the former international administrator in Bosnia , told the BBC that it was a ` longed hoped for day . '

3 ` The four years that I was working with NATO to try and catch him were peppered by rumors of where he was -- in this cafe , on that mountain , in this valley . '
3 Watch Karadzic 's lawyer slam arrest 

1 Ashdown also told Britain 's Daily Telegraph newspaper that it was a ` major breakthrough for the Balkans region . '

3 ` Karadzic was accused of being the architect of the worst war crimes that have been perpetrated in Europe since the Nazis .

3 ` It is a major credit to Serbia and at last brings the prospect of justice for Bosnia , ' Ashdown said .

3 The arrest brought Serbia 's hopes of joining the EU one step closer to realization , EU foreign affairs chief Javier Solana lauding the news .

3 ` This ... gives us immense satisfaction .
3 The new government in Belgrade stands for a new Serbia , for a new quality of relations with the EU . '

3 Vuk Jeremic , Serbia 's Foreign Minister , said the arrest was proof Serbia was ` serious when it comes to her European fate . '

3 However , Serb Radical Party Secretary General Aleksandar Vucic said it was ` horrible ' news and that the country was ` on its way to disappear . '

3 Karadzic , 63 , is accused of leading the worst acts of brutality Europe has seen since the Nazi campaigns of World War II .

3 He is wanted over he deadly siege of Sarajevo , which left an estimated 10,000 people dead , and the 1995 massacre of 8,000 Muslims in Srebrenica .
