1 Coroner : Sean Levert died of natural causes - CNN.com .
1 CLEVELAND , Ohio -LRB- AP -RRB- -- The R&B singer Sean Levert , who died at age 39 after falling ill in jail , suffered from a variety of ailments and died of natural causes , the county coroner ruled Thursday .

1 The 39-year-old Levert , a member of the 1980s R&B trio LeVert and son of lead O'Jays singer Eddie Levert , died March 31 at a hospital after he was taken from the Cuyahoga County jail .
3 He was serving a 22-month sentence for failure to pay child support .

3 Levert 's family had questioned officials ' account that Levert had been acting strangely and was restrained before he fell ill. .
3 But in his ruling , County Coroner Frank Miller ruled out foul play or trauma .

3 Patti Webster , Levert 's publicist , did not return a call seeking comment on the coroner 's findings .

1 Miller said Levert died from complications of sarcoidosis , an inflammatory lung disease that produces tiny lumps of cells in body 's organs .
1 The coroner said Levert also suffered from other conditions , including cardiovascular disease and withdrawal from alprazolam -- a drug used to treat anxiety disorders and panic attacks .

3 After Levert died , jail warden Kevin McDonough said he had been sick and guards were watching him because he had been acting strangely .
3 When he started pounding on his cell door , guards strapped him in a restraint chair , McDonough said .
3 Levert 's breathing became shallow and he was taken to the hospital .

3 Levert 's family questioned McDonough 's account and wanted the FBI to investigate .
3 Levert 's cousin , Michael Gibson , said Levert never had any outburst such as the type described by McDonough .

3 FBI spokesman Scott Wilson said in April that agents were willing to meet with Levert 's family .
3 Wilson said Thursday that the FBI was never contacted by the family .

3 Messages seeking comment from Sean Levert 's publicist , Patti Webster , were not returned .

2 Levert and his brother Gerald formed LeVert in the 1980s with childhood friend Marc Gordon .
3 Their hits included ` Baby I 'm Ready , ' ' -LRB- Pop , Pop , Pop , Pop -RRB- Goes My Mind ' and ` Casanova . '

3 His brother died in 2006 at age 40 of an accidental mix of prescription and over-the-counter drugs .

3 Sean Levert , who was trying to start the group LeVert again , had pleaded guilty in March to six counts of failure to pay child support .
3 He was accused of failure to pay $ 89,025 to children ages 11 , 15 and 17 .

3 He had pleaded guilty in 1995 to drug abuse and was placed on probation and required to get treatment .
