1 Rush Limbaugh calls on conservatives to take back nation - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Rush Limbaugh brought a cheering crowd to its feet several times Saturday at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington as he called on fellow conservatives to take back the country .

3 ` We conservatives have not done a good enough job of just laying out basically who we are , because we make the mistake of assuming that people know .
3 What they know is largely incorrect , based on the way we 're portrayed in pop culture , in the drive-by media , by the Democrat party , ' the conservative talk show host told a mostly young crowd of energized supporters .

1 ` We want every American to be the best he or she chooses to be .
3 We recognize that we are all individuals .
3 We love and revere our founding documents , the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence .
3 We believe that the preamble of the Constitution contains an inarguable truth , that we are all endowed by our creator with certain inalienable rights , among them life , liberty , freedom -- and the pursuit of happiness , ' he said , pausing several times for enthusiastic applause .

1 Looking ahead to the 2012 election , Limbaugh said conservatives will have to choose the right candidate to take the country back .

3 Limbaugh 's impassioned keynote speech , punctuated by chest-thumping , fist-pumping and chants of ` USA ' from the crowd , capped off three days of talk at CPAC focusing on rebuilding the Republican Party .

3 ` He played to his crowd here , ' CNN political editor Mark Preston said .
3 ` And this crowd is now energized , something we have n't seen from Republicans , certainly not conservatives , since the November election . '

1 Limbaugh used his self-described ` first national address , ' which ran more than an hour longer than his allotted 20 minutes , to accuse President Obama of inspiring fear in Americans in order to push a liberal agenda of ` big government . '

1 ` He wants people in fear , angst and crisis , fearing the worst each and every day , because that clears the decks for President Obama and his pals to come in with the answers , which are abject failures , historically shown and demonstrated .
3 Does n't matter .
3 They 'll have control of it when it 's all over .
3 And that 's what they want , ' Limbaugh said .

3 ` They see these inequalities , these inequities that capitalism produces .
3 How do they try to fix it ?
3 Do they try to elevate those at the bottom ?
3 No , they try to tear down the people at the top . '

3 Limbaugh praised Obama as one of the most gifted politicians he has seen , but said , ` It just breaks my heart that he does not use these extraordinary talents and gifts to motivate and inspire the American people to be the best they can be .
3 He 's doing just the opposite . '

3 Limbaugh also dismissed the notion of bipartisanship as a ` false premise ' given the diverging views of the Democratic and Republican Parties on a variety of issues , including the recent $ 787 stimulus package signed by Obama .

3 ` Bipartisanship occurs only after one other result .
3 And that is victory , ' he said .

3 ` What -LRB- Democrats -RRB- mean is we check our core principles at the door , come in , let them run the show , and then agree with them , ' he said .

1 Limbaugh 's rollicking speech came the day after Obama supporters put out a political ad implying that the conservative radio host has become the de facto head of the Republican Party in the absence of a clear GOP leader .

3 The ad argues that the Republican leadership in Congress is following Limbaugh 's lead in opposing the Obama administration 's stimulus package .

2 ` So who are Republican leaders listening to ? ' the announcer asks , before the 30-second ad cuts abruptly to footage of Limbaugh saying , ` I want him -LRB- Obama -RRB- to fail . '

2 It was paid for by Americans United for Change and the American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employees union , two groups that supported Obama during the election and are advocating for his agenda .

3 Limbaugh does n't speak for all Republicans or conservatives .
3 Copies of the American Conservative magazine with the headline ` How radio wrecks the right ' were distributed to CPAC attendees , Preston said .

3 ` There is some criticism of Rush Limbaugh .
3 Some people think he is a reactionary , ' Preston said .

3 Limbaugh defended his remark about wanting Obama to fail , comparing it to his desire to see the Arizona Cardinals ` fail ' in this year 's Super Bowl game against the Pittsburgh Steelers .

3 ` This notion that I want the president to fail , folks , this shows you a sign of the problem we 've got , ' he said .

3 ` What is so strange about being honest and saying , I want Barack Obama to fail if his mission is to restructure and reform this country so that capitalism and individual liberty are not its foundation ?
3 Why would I want that to succeed ? ' he said , bringing the crowd once again to its feet .

3 ` Did the Democrats want the war in Iraq to fail ?
3 Well , they certainly did .
3 And they not only wanted the war in Iraq to fail , they proclaimed it a failure . '
