3 Little-known Oscar nominees soak up the spotlight - CNN.com .
3 BEVERLY HILLS , California -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Cameras click as members of the media shout , ` Look this way please ! ' and ` Over here ! ' while pushing at each other to get the best shot .

3 The pair they 're focusing on seems almost blinded by the flash of lights .
3 But they smile agreeably until a publicist drags them across the room to a video crew , where a reporter shoves a microphone in their faces .

3 It 's not Oscar night yet , and the two men are n't big name celebrities .
3 Alan Smith and Adam Foulkes are the directors of the animated short film nominee ` This Way Up , ' and they 're soaking up the spotlight at the Academy 's Shorts ! reception in Beverly Hills , California .

1 The short film categories -- animated and live-action -- are among those Oscar slots that rarely garner attention , such as makeup or sound mixing .
3 The nominees range from Pixar 's newest animation director to foreign filmmakers to a group of college students .

3 ` It 's just such a more democratic process of filmmaking , ' Smith said .
3 ` You do n't need massive studio funding to make shorts -- although it helps . '

3 Foulkes agrees .
3 ` It 's so much more of a diverse selection .
2 It 's important that -LRB- these categories -RRB- exist because these are the people who will be making the features in the future . '

2 David Frankel , host of the Shorts ! program , knows the path from short films to features well .
1 Frankel , who had been a TV writer in the '80s and early '90s , won an Oscar for his short film ` Dear Diary ' in 1996 .
3 A few weeks after accepting his award , he received a call from Tom Hanks .
3 Hanks offered Frankel a job and that job led to a long working relationship .
1 Frankel most recently directed ` The Devil Wears Prada ' and ` Marley & Me . '

3 ` It all started with the Oscar , ' Frankel said .
3 ` You should look out for all of -LRB- the nominees -RRB- because I think that anyone who has gotten this far has enormous talent and is capable of great , great work . '

3 Steph Green and Tamara Anghie , director and producer of ` New Boy , ' are among the few female nominees in a field that tends to be dominated by males .
3 Green got the idea for ` New Boy ' after reading a short story about a young African boy 's first day at school in Ireland .

3 ` There is a specific kind of poetry in the short film , ' Green said .
3 ` You know , when someone tells you a good story , it 's not an hour and a half .
3 It 's 10 minutes of your life .
3 There 's something really wonderful about being able to laugh and cry or feel something real in that short amount of time . '

3 The pair hope their Oscar nomination will open many doors in the future , providing them with the opportunity to speak with people who might not have answered their calls before , Anghie said .

1 Doug Sweetland , director of Pixar 's animated film ` Presto ' -- the animated film about the magician and rabbit that preceded showings of ` WALL-E ' -- said he 's happy to still have a job .
3 He 's been animating with Pixar since ` Toy Story , ' although this film was his first directing opportunity .
3 He said he wants to continue pursuing directing and animation and is humbled by the attention his nomination is creating .

3 ` The real truth is I end up taking credit for way more than I deserve , ' Sweetland said , glancing around .
3 ` I like to think that I 'm simply representing everyone on the crew that killed for the short and made it completely awesome . '

3 Sweetland said he hopes only to retain consciousness on the day of the Academy Awards .
3 And if he happens to win ?

3 ` I have no idea .
3 I really try to think about that moment as little as possible . '
3 iReport.com : Who do you think will win ?

3 For Green and Anghie , the whole nomination process has been a roller-coaster ride -- one filled with twists , turns and lots of ` shiny objects , ' Green said .

3 ` There 's a dreamlike , surreal aspect to this nomination , which I 'm thoroughly enjoying , ' Anghie said .
3 ` I 'm wondering if I 'm going to wake up and feel like it all has been a dream .
3 And I 'm hoping that the aftermath of it all is still going to be glorious . '
