2 Career couples fight over who 's the ` trailing spouse ' - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- LifeWire -RRB- -- Misti Guertin was a publicist with a full roster of clients and a growing salary when her husband , Gary , 56 , was offered a job managing a luxury resort on a private island in the Caribbean .

2 ` My career was just beginning to bloom , ' says the Stuart , Florida , resident , ` but we both placed more emphasis on Gary 's career . '

3 Misti , 47 , was raised to believe that the man 's career comes first .
3 So she went , taking a token title as co-manager of the resort .
3 But less than a year after their arrival in 2005 , a fire ravaged the resort and Gary 's contract was terminated .

3 ` The strain on our relationship was sizable , ' she says .
3 The couple returned to Florida , where Misti went back to work as a publicist and Gary as the general manager of a yacht club and marina .
3 Her income this year , she says , will exceed Gary 's .

1 It 's common for couples to place more emphasis on the man 's career , according to a 2007 study of more than 9,000 married men and women ages 25-59 .
3 The researchers , from the University of Iowa and the University of California-Davis , also found that when couples relocate , the husband tends to get a salary boost -- $ 3,000 on average .
3 But the wife loses $ 750 .

2 ` When couples migrate , they are -LRB- typically -RRB- doing it for the benefit of the husband 's career , and so the wife is what we call the ` trailing spouse , '' says study author Mary Noonan , associate professor of sociology at the University of Iowa .
3 ` She may have to take a job in the new location that is a less-than-ideal match for her skills -LRB- or -RRB- qualifications . '

3 Expert : ` Things are moving slowly in the right direction ' 

2 Why do couples , even today , let the woman 's job take a back seat ?
3 Blame it on socialization , says Noonan .

3 While it may not be true for every relationship , more often than not , she says , ` men and women are taught to play very different roles within marriage .
3 Women are socialized to play a homemaking role within the family , whereas men are encouraged to focus on their careers and breadwinning . '
3 See how one dad has taken on child-rearing duties 

3 Daniel Buccino , a psychotherapist and faculty member at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine , agrees .

3 ` Until more men are willing to say , ` You know , honey , you should n't have to change your name or sacrifice your career , and I 'll stay home with our kids and aging parents , ' progress will remain glacial , ' he says .
3 ` But things are moving slowly in the right direction . '

1 Making Some Progress After Dayna Steele , 48 , published her first book in March and began making the media rounds , she found herself dealing with subtle power plays at home .

3 ` I have tried very hard to schedule around my husband 's full-time job and keep him posted on my schedule , confirming dates before I book them , ' says Steele , a former radio host living in Seabrook , Texas .
3 ` Then , he started scheduling things over mine without telling me .

3 ` It turned into a battle when I first tried to point out to him what he was doing -- trivializing my new career after promising to support it because he had a ` more important ' job . '

3 Steele knows her husband 's salary and benefits are important but says her career deserves respect , too .
3 ` We 're not quite all the way there , but we 're making some progress , ' she says .
1 Steele 's husband , Charles Justiz , 55 , a NASA research pilot , says he does his best to show he values his wife 's career , but it can be challenging , especially with two children .
1 ` We 've had some collisions , ' he admits .
3 ` I ca n't call NASA and say , ` Excuse me , I ca n't come in because my wife has a book signing . ''
3 See how CNN journalists juggle careers with motherhood 

3 But they 're both working on being more flexible , he says .
3 ` I love my wife , and the old saying is true : ` If Mama ai n't happy , ai n't nobody happy . ''

3 ` Balancing career scales ' 

1 Experts have some tips for couples clashing over a career move : Trade places .

1 ` It takes some heartfelt conversations to begin balancing the career scales in a marriage , ' says Les Parrott , a clinical psychologist and faculty member at Seattle Pacific University .
2 ` It requires both spouses to be honest with their feelings . '

3 Parrott asks clients to list what 's important to them about their careers , assigning each element a value from 1 to 10 .
3 After each spouse makes a list , they try to guess how much their partner values each item .

3 ` It 's almost always an eye-opener , ' says Parrott .
3 ` It helps them empathize .
1 It helps them trade places .
3 And with that new perspective , they are ready for a more honest and grace-filled exploration of their options together . '

3 Try the ` package deal ' approach .
3 When a couple is considering relocating , Buccino says , one spouse should see what the new company can do for the other .

3 Switch off .
3 Buccino says the fluidity of today 's job market gives couples ` opportunities to evaluate and re-evaluate and hopefully switch off between whose career takes priority at various phases along the marital life cycle . '

1 When neither is willing to budge , there 's always the long-distance marriage .

3 ` I have seen two-career couples that live in two different cities , ' Buccino says , ` because neither is willing to pass up great career opportunities . '

3 While such an arrangement may be a good interim move , it can take a toll on the relationship .

3 ` Some couples have not made it , ' Buccino says .
3 ` If they 're committed to each other and the relationship , and otherwise so busy with work when apart , then it can work .
3 But I 'm not sure I 'd recommend it as a first choice . '
