3 New Jason unmasked for ` Friday the 13th ' - CNN.com .
3 LOS ANGELES , California -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Actor Derek Mears has a big hockey mask to fill .

1 Mears was cast as the iconic boogeyman Jason Voorhees in the new ` Friday the 13th ' movie .

3 A remake of the original 1980 film , the new movie aims to breathe life into the former franchise about a psychopathic killer who preys on a group of young people at the fictitious Camp Crystal Lake .

3 Mears is no stranger to the horror genre , having co-starred in ` The Hills Have Eyes II . '
3 His career is extensive and includes stints as a stuntman in two of the popular ` Pirates of the Caribbean ' films .

3 He recently spoke to CNN about taking a turn as the ultimate evil , the thrill of continuing a slasher legacy and why he 's really not that bloody nice .

3 CNN : You are n't that scary in person , so what made you think you could be that scary on camera ?

3 Derek Mears : I 've got a lot of issues .
3 I 've got a whole lot of daddy issues .

3 No , I sound like a basket case .
3 It 's funny with acting -- we all wear masks in our normal life .
3 Not to sound like a weirdo in the hockey mask , but like right now I 'm really excited about the film and excited about playing the character , and I will start to speak faster .

3 That 's kind of what 's coming over me : ` Oh you 're , you 're really nice , ' but ... on the other side of me there are other Dereks that are angry , and like I said before , have a little bit of issues .

3 CNN : Tell me a little bit about how you were approached .
3 Did you know they were making it before they came to you ?
3 Was it kind of a shock ?

3 Mears : It 's so weird .
3 There 's two different versions .
3 There 's my version of how it went about , and there 's the producer 's version .

3 I 'll tell the producer 's version because my version is really , really long .
3 The short version of my version was I heard they were doing a new ` Friday the 13th , ' and I 've never tried to pursue a role before and I went , I really want to do this .

3 So when I heard they were doing it , before I even had an audition , I started training for it .
3 I found out a little about what they wanted for the character -- that he was n't going to be super , you know bulky or big , that he 's more functional .
3 He 's still big , but he 's lean .
3 So I started training that way and trying to do what I could just to get an audition .

3 On the other end , on the producer 's end , they asked a bunch of different industry professionals .
3 They said , ` Hey , were doing a new ` Friday the 13th . '
3 Who do you think would be a great new Jason ? '
1 And my name kept popping up , which I 'm blown away by .

3 They brought me in for an audition , and I met with them .
3 and they called me the next day and went , ` OK , you 're the guy . '
3 And I still do n't believe it till this day .
3 I 'm blown away .

3 CNN : How did you keep it light on the set ?

3 Mears : Believe it or not , all the actors ... got along so well .
3 I have never been so close to a cast before on set .
3 We were just goofing around and playing , but then when it 's time to work and get serious with certain scenes , we 'd all switch over and do our job and get to the point where we needed to .

3 CNN : Had you seen any of the original ` Friday the 13th ' movies ?

3 Mears : Oh yeah .
3 I mean , I 'm a fan .
3 I consider myself a fan of the series .

3 I already knew all of the originals .
3 I had them all on DVD , and when I first met with Platinum Dunes -LRB- the production company behind the new movie -RRB- , I told them , ` Hey look , I 'm a fan of the series first and foremost .
3 If I 'm right for the part , fantastic .
3 If I 'm not right for the part , that 's OK , too .
3 I , just as a fan , want to see a good ` Friday the 13th ' film .
3 I want to see the series continue so if I can help it , awesome , but I just want to see something good . '

3 CNN : Did you try to model your character after previous Jasons , or did you try to kind of take it and make it your own ?

1 Mears : Definitely make it my own .

2 I used the script that Mark Swift and Damian Shannon wrote as a blueprint -- like you would for any acting role where I knew the other guys who 've played ` Jason ' before , and what they 've done , but you kind of shove that away somewhere deep in your brain and build your character from the new script .
3 And there are times in the film here and there where I would do little tips of the hats or little homage for the guys who have played him before .

3 CNN : It 's kind of a dream come true .

3 Mears : Yeah , that 's why I keep saying the words this whole interview like ` unbelievable , ' unbelievable because I do n't believe it .

3 CNN : Which is funny .
3 You do n't usually think of such happiness and glee -LRB- on a horror movie set -RRB- .

3 Mears : And trust me , you wo n't see that in the final product .
