2 Charged for movies I never watched - CNN.com .
2 There 's a $ 24 charge for two movies on Keeley Hozjan 's hotel bill .
2 Movies that were never ordered or watched .
1 Although the hotel promises an investigation , the charge shows up on Hozjan 's credit card only a day after checkout .
3 What gives ?

3 Q : What can you do if a hotel is charging you for something you did n't use ?
3 I stayed at the Liaison Capitol Hill in Washington recently .
1 When I received a bill under my door the morning of departure , I noticed there was a balance of $ 24 for two in-room movies , both ordered on the same day , one right after the other .

1 The problem is , I never ordered any movies during my stay .
1 And what 's more , my traveling companion and I were out to dinner at the time that these movies were allegedly ordered .

3 When we went to the front desk to ask that they review the security tapes for the entryway to prove we had left the hotel , we were told that the security person was not available .
1 The front desk manager then said that her manager offered to take one of the movies off our bill , to which we said , ` no. ' Finally , she offered to conduct an investigation once their security person came on duty .

3 We never heard from any of them .
1 When I looked at my credit card statement , I saw that they posted the movie charge to my account the day after we disputed the bill .
3 After numerous calls to the hotel , this issue still has n't been resolved .
3 Can you help ?

3 -- Keeley Hozjan , Seattle 

3 A : If you did n't order the movies , your hotel should have removed the charges from your bill right away .
3 Not offered to investigate .
3 Not offered a 50 percent discount on something you did n't order .
3 A refund -- now .

3 I think the fact that you were willing to review the security tapes , and that you had an alibi , was a tip-off that the in-room entertainment system might have billed you erroneously .

3 In-room entertainment systems are big moneymakers for hotels .
3 Properties typically split the profits from in-room movies with a third company , which supplies the programming and technology .
3 They 're reluctant to remove any charges because it 'll cost them .

3 The ` we 'll - split-the-difference ' solution is n't a solution at all .
3 It 's a cop-out .
3 It means either one party , or both , ca n't conclusively prove that they 're right .
3 So in an effort to recover some money , one side offers to cut the bill .

3 The problem with that resolution is that one side -- either the hotel or the guest -- ends up paying for something they should n't .
3 And that 's unfair .

3 I ca n't believe they gave you the ` we 'll - look-into-it ' line .
3 That 's another popular hotel tactic that 's meant to make the customers go away and quietly pay their bills .
3 There 's no way of knowing if the Liaison Capitol Hill intended to investigate your claim .
2 But the fact that the hotel charged your card the following day would lead me to believe that it just told you what you wanted to hear .

3 You could have handled this differently .
3 When you saw the charges , you should have contacted the front desk immediately , preferably in person .
3 Give yourself plenty of time .
3 Explain your situation calmly and rationally , and if the hotel employee is n't being helpful , ask to speak with a manager .

3 The Liaison Capitol Hill is an upscale property where a room ca n't be had for less than $ 200 a night .
3 A competent supervisor would remove the charges immediately .
3 Why endanger someone 's repeat business over a relatively minor amount ?

3 If you were in a hurry to check out , I would have committed your grievance to writing instead of calling the hotel .
3 Writing works far better when you have a formal complaint of this nature .
3 I recommend an email .
3 The naming convention for the Liaison is first initial , last name -LRB- all one word -RRB- @affinia.com .

1 I contacted the Liaison 's parent company , Affinia , and it refunded the charges for both movies immediately .
