2 U.N. chief in Myanmar : Let us help - CNN.com .
3 YANGON , Myanmar -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- International aid is needed to help cyclone-ravaged Myanmar because the country is not equipped to handle the devastation , U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told Myanmar 's prime minister Thursday .

1 The country 's military rulers have been slow to allow foreign aid in the country , and Ban expressed frustration over what he said was ` the inability of the aid workers to bring assistance at the right time to the affected areas . '

1 Prime Minister Thein Sein said , however , that he believes the relief phase of the recovery effort was over and it was time to begin reconstruction .

3 Cyclone Nargis slammed into Myanmar earlier this month , claiming more than 130,000 lives and uprooting more than 2 million people from their homes , according to the United Nations .

3 Myanmar 's leaders prevented foreign agencies from assessing victims ' needs after the storm , and insisted any aid be distributed by their soldiers and volunteers -- a demand that violated many aid agencies ' policies .

1 Ban arrived Thursday morning in Yangon and was welcomed by Foreign Minister Nya Win before signing a condolence book for cyclone victims .
3 Later , he stopped at the gilded Shwedagon Pagoda -- a historic landmark , and the country 's holiest shrine .

3 There , he offered flowers to the statue of Buddha and followed local tradition by removing his shoes and socks to walk around the pagoda .
3 Watch Ban in Myanmar Ban told the pagoda 's trustees , ` The United Nations and the whole international community stand ready to help you overcome this tragedy . '

3 ` That is why I am here .
3 The main purpose of my coming to Myanmar is to demonstrate my solidarity , ' Ban said .
3 ` The United Nations and the whole international community stand ready to help you overcome this tragedy . '

3 He added , ` At the same time , I hope your people and government can coordinate the flow of aid so the aid work can be done in a more systematic and organized way . '

3 Ban also offered money to the trustees to pass on to the cyclone victims , the United Nations said .

1 Ban toured the devastated Irrawaddy Delta in southern Myanmar by helicopter .
3 The coastline of the Andaman Sea was hit especially hard , and aid workers have reported bodies still lining the shore in some spots .

3 Also on Thursday , U.S. deputy State Department spokesman Tom Casey said William Berger , head of USAID Disaster Assistance Response , arrived in the country to attend a briefing there and to take part in an arranged tour of the delta for foreign diplomats .
3 However , the country still refuses to allow a U.S. assessment team to evaluate conditions , Casey said .

3 Myanmar , which is also known as Burma , is expected to face a food crisis because the cyclone wiped out crops in the Irrawaddy -- the heartland for rice farming -- and flooded the area with salt water , imperiling future crops .

3 Thailand has pledged to send rice feed and farming equipment to its neighbor .

1 Ahead of his arrival in Myanmar , Ban stopped in Bangkok , Thailand , where he said Asian nations are beginning to focus on Myanmar 's reconstruction needs .
3 Watch trucks of Thai aid roll into Myanmar 

3 Ban will return to Bangkok to meet Friday evening with Thai Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej .
3 Thailand is the first country that successfully persuaded the junta to allow medical teams into the country .

3 The teams are now stationed in the delta city of Myaungmya .
3 CNN news teams said they have seen trucks full of people arriving at refugee shelters there .

3 Ban said Thai doctors have seen no sign of a health epidemic in Myanmar , despite fears after the cyclone hit early this month .
