2 N. Korea preps for satellite launch amid ` space development ' claim - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Denying recent intelligence suggesting it is preparing to test a long-range missile , North Korea signaled Monday it is gearing up to launch a satellite , according to South Korea 's Yonhap news agency .

1 A senior U.S. official told CNN last week that an American spy satellite had snapped an image of preparations at a North Korean site previously used to launch Taepodong-2 missiles .

3 The photograph shows North Korea assembling telemetry equipment involving sophisticated electronics used to monitor missile launches , the official said , adding there was no direct evidence that a missile was being moved to the launch pad .

2 North Korea 's official Korean Central News Agency -LRB- KCNA -RRB- said Monday it will go ahead with its ` space development ' program , Yonhap said , adding that the report is a possible message to Washington ahead of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton 's visit to Seoul , South Korea , this week .

1 ` One will come to know later what will be launched in the DPRK -LRB- Democratic People 's Republic of Korea -RRB- , ' KCNA said , according to Yonhap , but it denied a missile test is planned .
2 ` Space development is the independent right of the DPRK and the requirement of the developing reality , ' KCNA said , calling outside reports a ` vicious trick ' aimed at stopping the nation 's sovereign activity , Yonhap reported .

3 The reclusive North Korean regime made a similar claim after launching a rocket in 1998 , saying it succeeded in putting a satellite into orbit , Yonhap said .

3 U.S. intelligence officials initially said after the August 1998 test that North Korea launched a two-stage Taepodong-1 missile , but later said it was a three-stage missile , and the third stage broke up in an unsuccessful attempt to put a small satellite into orbit .

1 South Korea rejected the North Korean claim that it has a right to space development , with Foreign Minister Yu Myung-hwan saying at a parliamentary session , ` Whether it is a missile or a satellite , -LRB- a launch -RRB- would constitute a violation of the U.N. Security Council 's Resolution 1718 , ' Yonhap reported Monday .

3 That resolution , adopted in October 2006 , imposed sanctions against North Korea -- and demanded it stop nuclear activity and missile testing -- after it launched a Taepodong-2 long-range ballistic missile .
3 The missile failed 40 seconds after launch , but the Taepodong-2 is believed to have an intended range of about 2,500 miles -LRB- about 4,025 kilometers -RRB- , making it capable of striking Alaska .

3 Asked about the matter last week , U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates would only say , ` Well , since the first time that they launched the missile it flew for a few minutes before crashing , the range of the Taepodong-2 remains to be seen .
3 So far , it 's very short .
3 I 'm not going to get into intelligence reports , but it would be nice if North Korea would focus on getting positive messages across ... to its negotiating partners about verification and moving forward with the denuclearization . '

3 North Korea has been involved on and off in what is known as the six-party talks with the United States , China , Russia , South Korea and Japan .

3 Clinton left for Asia on Sunday on her first overseas trip as secretary of state , and is scheduled to travel to Japan , China , South Korea and Indonesia to discuss a range of issues , including mutual economic recovery , trade , the prevention of nuclear weapons proliferation and reversing global warning .
3 Her trip represents a departure from a diplomatic tradition under which the first overseas trip by the secretary of state of a new administration is to Europe .

3 Speaking at the New York-based Asia Society before her departure , Clinton called North Korea 's nuclear program ` the most acute challenge to stability in northeast Asia . '
3 She said the Obama administration is prepared to seek a permanent , stable peace with Pyongyang so long as its regime pursues disarmament and does not engage in aggression against South Korea .
