2 Commentary : Immigrants melting into the pot as usual - CNN.com .
2 SAN DIEGO , California -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- On the question of whether recent immigrants assimilate as quickly as previous waves , many Americans exhibit short fuses -- and even shorter memories .

1 They have convinced themselves that , instead of adapting to the customs of this country , new arrivals -- most of whom come from Asia or Latin America -- expect the rest of us to accommodate them .
3 They go ballistic over little things -- Mexican flags , taco trucks , libraries that offer bilingual story time , or having to ` press one for English . '

3 Yet , even as they look down on new immigrants , many Americans look back fondly upon their immigrant ancestors .
1 Legend has it that when grandpa arrived from Ireland , Germany , Italy or Poland , he jumped off the boat , immediately draped himself in the American flag , ripped out his native tongue , and abandoned his culture -- all while singing ` Yankee Doodle Dandy . '
3 Germans did not move to Milwaukee and make beer and cheese .
3 The Irish did not settle in Boston and join organizations like the Hibernian Society to preserve their heritage and culture .

3 And even while Americans complain about how the current crop of immigrants are n't like their predecessors , they miss the irony : At the time , there were people who said the same thing about their ancestors ; the Germans were thought to not be like the English , the Irish were n't like the Germans , the Italians were n't like the Irish etc. .
3 And the Chinese were n't like anyone who had come before them , and so they were labeled ` unassimilable ' by the Tom Tancredos of that era .

3 Some things never change .
3 When I was growing up in Central California , which is home to a large population of immigrants from Southeast Asia , thousands would gather to celebrate Hmong New Year .
3 The local newspaper would do a feature .
3 And , in the days that followed , someone would write an angry letter to the editor complaining that these people were n't melting into the pot .

1 Yet , there is more melting going on than one might think , according to a new report from the Manhattan Institute .
3 Billed as the first annual Index of Immigrant Assimilation , the study was written by Duke University Professor Jacob Vigdor .
3 It measured three kinds of assimilation : economic -LRB- employment , education , homeownership , etc. -RRB- ; cultural -LRB- intermarriage , English proficiency , family size , etc. -RRB- ; and civic -LRB- citizenship , military service , political participation , etc. -RRB- .
2 Far from discovering that recent immigrants are ducking the assimilation process , the study found that ` immigrants of the past quarter-century have assimilated more rapidly than their counterparts of a century ago , even though they are more distinct from the native population upon arrival . '

3 Of course , individual groups still fall behind in some categories .
3 Chinese and Indian immigrants have low levels of cultural assimilation .
3 Mexican immigrants have low levels of economic assimilation .
3 And Canadian and Indian immigrants have low levels of civic assimilation , since few of them become citizens .

2 But , overall , the news is good .
2 After more than 200 years , America still does an excellent job of assimilating immigrants .
3 Even if a particular group tried to resist the process , they would n't stand a chance .
2 Assimilation happens , whether the immigrants are ready or not .

3 Those are the facts .
3 Of course , fear does n't listen to facts .
3 That is something else that has n't changed .

2 Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a member of the editorial board of the San Diego Union-Tribune and a nationally syndicated columnist .
3 Read his column here .
3 The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the writer .
