1 Medicine man says he can cure AIDS - CNN.com .
3 ABUJA , Nigeria -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- The small room captured the smells from the wild assortment of herbs , barks and powders scattered in bags at the feet of the local medicine man .

3 Using the little available light , Baba Chukuri mixed together half a-cup of water , several crushed roots , and passed it to a woman who had come to him for medical treatment .

3 She drank the mixture and cringed at the bitter taste .

3 Baba Chukuri is one of many traditional healers across Nigeria offering treatments to hundreds of people daily for a variety of illnesses .

3 Many of these illnesses include scientifically incurable diseases like AIDS .

3 ` My grandfather was a hunter , ' he explains , ` we used to collect herbs together and he would show me how to make the recipes . '

3 There is no scientific basis to Chukuri 's claims but speaking in his Hausa language , he explained how he charges less money than hospitals , so local people can afford him .

2 ` But also people trust me because they see my medicine works , ' he says .

2 Seventy percent of Nigeria 's population live on less than a dollar a day , forcing many people to come to local healers like Chukuri for affordable treatment .

1 But with the second highest number of AIDS cases in the world , ` bogus ' cures for diseases like AIDS are also big business in Nigeria .

1 However , Nigeria 's Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development -- or NIPRD -- are now testing Chukuri 's , and other healers , claims .

3 Dr Yemi Kunle from NIPRD 's department of Traditional Medicine believes traditional healers can become allies in the fight against AIDS and other diseases .

3 ` They work with a variety of medicinal plants and these plants serve as leads when we want to develop new products in orthodox medicine , ' the young doctor explains .

1 Dr Kunle and NIPRD are testing hundreds of roots and herbs used in traditional medicine from across Nigeria .

3 NIPRD have developed a sickle cell treatment -- NICOSAN -- in 2000 , and earlier this year released a treatment for diabetes .

3 In their modern labs and herbal gardens they are now working on a variety of treatments for tuberculosis , malaria , and immune boosters against AIDS .

2 ` On HIV , we 've screened over 100 medicinal plants , out of which 10 , 12 , have seen a great deal of activity as anti-viral agent , ' explained Dr Uford Inyang -- NIPRD 's jovial Director General .

3 Inyang believes the global herbal market to be worth up to $ 5 billion .
1 If any of the treatments are found to work , the local healers can receive up to 10 percent of the profits in royalties .

3 None of Chukuri 's treatments have yet been scientifically proven to work .

3 But claiming over a hundred year 's of healing tradition in his family , scientists hope the elderly man and his experience will help lead them through the thousands of possible herbal varieties in Nigeria -- to a possible cure .
