1 Agreement reached on N. Korean nuclear timetable - CNN.com .
1 BEIJING , China -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- The latest phase of six-nation talks on North Korea 's nuclear program ended Saturday with agreement on a timetable for North Korea to disable its nuclear facilities , according to South Korea 's news agency , Yonhap .

1 North Korea agreed to complete dismantling of its Yongbyon nuclear facility by October in return for the completion of energy assistance to North Korea by the United States , South Korea and other countries by the same time , Yonhap reported .

2 ` The parties formulated a timetable for economic and energy assistance with disablement of the Yongbyon nuclear facilities , ' according to a joint statement issued by the six countries involved in the talks , reported by Yonhap .

3 The parties to the talks also agreed on a system for verifying North Korea 's compliance , including ` visits to facilities , review of documents , interviews with technical personnel and other measures unanimously agreed upon among the six parties , ' the statement said .

3 The six-party talks , which had been on hold for the past nine months , resumed in Beijing on Thursday after several perceived positive developments in efforts to dismantle North Korea 's nuclear program .

3 In addition to the United States and the two Koreas , China , Japan and Russia are taking part in the talks .

3 While the senior negotiators ended their talks Saturday , Yonhap reported that their deputies would stay in Beijing to work on more details .

3 North Korea made a public show of its destruction last month of a water cooling tower at the Yongbyon facility where officials now acknowledge they extracted plutonium to build nuclear weapons .

3 The destruction of the highly visible symbol of North Korea 's long-secret nuclear program came just a day after the country released details of its program .

3 For months , North Korea has been dismantling other parts of the facility under the the watchful eyes of representatives of the six nations that have been involved in the talks .

3 On June 26 , North Korean officials turned over a 60-page declaration to China , written in English , that details several rounds of plutonium production at the Yongbyon plant dating back to 1986 .

3 In it , North Korea acknowledged producing roughly 40 kilograms of enriched plutonium -- enough for about seven nuclear bombs , according to the U.S. State Department .

3 In response , U.S. President George W. Bush said he would lift some U.S. sanctions against North Korea and remove the country from the State Department 's list of state sponsors of terrorism .
3 But he made clear that other sanctions remain in place on North Korea -- which has been on the list since its alleged involvement in the 1987 bombing of a South Korean airliner that killed 115 people .

1 Other nations are providing food and energy assistance to the secretive nation .
3 South Korea said Thursday it would ask Japan to join other regional countries in providing aid to the North .

3 North Korea agreed to abandon its atomic weapons program on a promise from the other five nations in the talks that they deliver energy aid equivalent to one million tons of heavy fuel oil .

3 But Japan has refused to take part , saying Pyongyang must first resolve the issue of Japanese citizens abducted in the 1970s and 1980s .
3 Tokyo claims North Korea kidnapped 17 Japanese nationals .
3 Five have been repatriated and Pyongyang says the rest have died .

3 North Korea has said it will not move on to the next phase of dismantling its nuclear weapons program before receiving all of the energy aid it has been promised .

3 To address Japan 's concerns , Pyongyang has reopened an investigation into the abduction issue .
3 Tokyo is awaiting the results before deciding whether to provide the aid .
