1 N. Korea : Ready to launch satellite - CNN.com .
1 SEOUL , Korea -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- North Korea announced Tuesday it was preparing to launch a satellite from its northeastern coast , denying recent intelligence suggesting it was ready to test a long-range missile .

2 ` Full-scale preparations are underway at a satellite launch site , '' a North Korean space committee spokesman said through the official Korean Central News Agency -LRB- KCNA -RRB- .

3 The Kwangmyongsong-2 satellite would launch on the Eunha-2 rocket , he said .

3 ` If the satellite is successfully launched , our country 's space technology will take a great step forward into becoming a strong , economic country , ' the spokesman said , adding that the North Korea is following its own ` peaceful use policy ' in developing such technology .

3 Earlier this month a senior U.S. official told CNN that a U.S. spy satellite had snapped an image of preparations at a North Korean site previously used to launch Taepodong-2 missiles .
3 The photograph shows North Korean workers assembling telemetry equipment -- involving sophisticated electronics used to monitor missile launches , the official said , adding there was no direct evidence that a missile was being moved to the launch pad .

3 North Korea will go ahead with ` space development , ' according to its official Korean Central News Agency -LRB- KCNA -RRB- last week , saying the program was ` the independent right of the -LRB- Democratic People 's Republic of Korea -RRB- and the requirement of the developing reality . '

1 Tension between Pyongyang and its neighbor South Korea has increased in recent weeks , with North Korea announcing it would scrap peace agreements with the South , warning of a war on the Korean peninsula and threatening to test a missile capable of hitting the western United States .

3 U.S. and South Korean officials have said that North Korea appears to be preparing to test-fire its long-range missile , the Taepodong-2 .
3 Pyongyang tested one of the missiles in 2006 , but it failed 40 seconds after launch .
3 The missile is thought to have an intended range of about 4,200 miles -LRB- 6,700 kilometers -RRB- , which -- if true -- could give it the capability of striking Alaska or Hawaii .

1 North Korea has been involved in what is known as the six-party talks with the United States , Japan , Russia , South Korea and China -- an effort to end the nation 's nuclear program .

1 U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton , who returned from Asia on Sunday after her first overseas trip in the post , recently called North Korea 's nuclear program ` the most acute challenge to stability in northeast Asia . '

3 However , she told CNN , any saber-rattling by North Korea toward South Korea should be taken with a grain of salt , since ` South Korea basically keeps the North Korean economy going with all of the subsidies of food and fuel and medical supplies . '

3 Clinton believes North Korea consciously deploys two different stances -- at times being bellicose toward its neighbors and at other times behaving rationally and sticking with commitments -- as part of a calculated effort for diplomatic maneuvering .
