2 New film explores confusing game of love - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Nine leading characters , one big problem .

1 With his latest film , ` He 's Just Not That Into You , ' director Ken Kwapis navigates through the lives of nine Baltimore-based twenty - and thirty-somethings as they play the problematic game of love .

3 ` I found myself relating to all of them .
1 Nine different people , men and women .
3 I 've either been there , done that or made that mistake , put my foot in my mouth in that same way , ' Kwapis said .

3 Kwapis , who directs episodes of NBC 's hit television show ` The Office ' and also helmed the 2005 film ` The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants , ' seems to have become an expert on working with ensembles .

3 ` You have to make sure all the characters and all the stories are compelling for an audience , ' he said .
3 ` They 're all equal ... I would be hard-pressed to be , like , ` Oh , that 's the one who shines . '
3 They shine equally . '

2 Based on the best-selling book by Liz Tuccillo and Greg Behrendt , a former ` Sex and the City ' writer and producer , ` He 's Just Not That Into You , ' which opens Friday , delves into the bewildering world of relationships through the work of an all-star cast .

1 Stars of the film include Drew Barrymore , Scarlett Johannson , Jennifer Aniston , Ginnifer Goodwin and Kevin Connolly , all of whom were familiar with the confusing situations their characters encountered in the film .

3 The story is a roundelay of love 's missed opportunities and misunderstandings .
3 After going on a date with Conor -LRB- Connolly -RRB- , Gigi -LRB- Goodwin -RRB- waits obsessively for him to call .
3 But Conor is still in love with Anna -LRB- Johannson -RRB- , who is hopelessly attracted to good-looking but married Ben , played by Bradley Cooper .

3 And around and around it goes .

3 ` The thing that I 've learned over the past 30 years is the thing that Gigi learns in the story , which is that with self-acceptance really comes the right partner , ' said Goodwin .

1 Such life lessons , as depicted in the film , are learned with time and experience , said Barrymore , who is among the cast members whose own relationships have made for high-profile tabloid fodder .

3 ` I was happy in my 20s , but what I know in my 30s just makes me so much happier , ' she said .

3 Barrymore , who was also an executive producer for the film , confessed she was not much different from her character , Mary , who tries against all technological odds to find the right guy .

3 ` I 'm talking with my girlfriends about , ` What is this all about ? '
3 ` I have to tell you about this . '
1 ... Talking about relationships is so consuming , ' Barrymore said .

3 ` All relationships , too , ' Aniston agreed .
3 ` I mean , not just love relationships .
3 Friendships , girl-girl , boy-boy , mom-dad , mom-brother .
3 I mean , I think these relationships are always up for discussion . '

3 Insight into the inner workings of the opposite sex is hard to come by , Kwapis said .

3 ` What I absolutely know about women is that they 're utterly mysterious and I 'm convinced that if I continue to make films about them , I might one day understand them fully , ' he said .
