1 Obama to order Guantanamo Bay prison closed - CNN.com .
1 WASHINGTON -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- President-elect Barack Obama plans to order the closing of the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay as early as his first week in office to show a break from the Bush administration 's approach to the war on terror , according to two officials close to the transition .

3 One of the officials said it would be in keeping with Obama 's campaign promise to shut down the prison through executive order , a move which was also pushed by last year 's Republican presidential nominee , Sen. John McCain , R-Arizona .

3 ` The president-elect has repeatedly said the legal framework at Gitmo has failed to successfully and swiftly prosecute terrorists , ' said one of the officials close to the transition , who was not authorized to speak publicly about private deliberations .

3 Such a move would reassure those concerned after Obama 's recent public comments suggested he may not immediately shut the prison down .

3 ` It is more difficult than I think a lot of people realize and we are going to get it done , but part of the challenge that you have is that you have a bunch of folks that have been detained , many of whom who may be very dangerous who have not been put on trial or have not gone through some adjudication , ' Obama said on ABC 's ` This Week ' on Sunday when asked whether he would close the prison in his first 100 days .

2 Obama also said he was trying to develop a process that ` adheres to rule of law ' but ` does n't result in releasing people who are intent on blowing us up . '

2 ` I think it 's going to take some time and our legal teams are working in consultation with our national security apparatus as we speak , to help design exactly what we need to do , ' Obama said .

3 ` But I do n't want to be ambiguous about this .
1 We are going to close Guantanamo and we are going to make sure that the procedures we set up are ones that abide by our Constitution , ' he said .

3 The military prison at Guantanamo Bay is a major issue because for critics of the Bush administration , it has become a symbol of mismanagement and overreach in the war on terror .

3 At his final White House press conference on Monday , President Bush was asked whether the military prison and harsh interrogation tactics have damaged America 's standing in the world .
3 iReport.com : What should Obama do first ?

3 ` I strongly disagree with the assessment that our moral standing has been damaged , ' Bush said .
3 ` It may be damaged amongst some of the elite .
3 But people still understand America stands for freedom ; that America is a country that provides such great hope . '
