3 Will Obama 's economic plan stimulate bipartisan support ? - CNN.com .
2 WASHINGTON -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- President Barack Obama , who arguably won a large chunk of political capital in the 2008 election , is now looking to cash in as he urges Congress to pass a massive economic stimulus package .

3 But questions about how to spend the money and concerns about the last stimulus package under former President Bush , may create a roadblock .

3 It 's something the newly minted president is hoping to avoid .
3 But like most things in Washington , cooperation does n't come easy .

3 And that may be why Obama painted an extremely grim portrait of the nation 's economy on Saturday -- just hours before he met with his economic team , and days before he meets with Republicans leaders on Capitol Hill .

3 ` We begin this year and this administration in the midst of an unprecedented crisis that calls for unprecedented action , ' he said in his weekly radio and Internet address .
3 ` Just this week , we saw more people file for unemployment than at any time in the last 26 years , and experts agree that if nothing is done , the unemployment rate could reach double digits . '

3 Obama pleaded for quick action , warning , ` a bad situation could become dramatically worse . '

1 The president urged congressional members to quickly pass an $ 825 billion economic stimulus package , which he hopes will create up to 4 million jobs over the next two years .

3 Obama said he plans to take a three-pronged approach to recovery : Stabilize the financial system , fix market regulation and pass the stimulus plan .

1 Negotiations are set to continue this week , as the House is expected to hold a vote on its stimulus plan on Wednesday .
3 The Senate is set to begin its deliberation over its stimulus proposal , after announcing its own plan on Friday .

3 The president hopes to have the plan passed by Congress and on his desk for signing by February 16 , which is Presidents Day .

3 On Sunday , Obama 's director of the National Economic Council , Lawrence Summers , said greater accountability will be a part of the new plan .

3 ` But there is one other thing that we are also very mindful of , which is money has to be spent well .
3 And that 's why the president 's put new emphasis on accountability , ' Summers said on NBC 's ` Meet the Press . '

3 After a stimulus bill is passed , a Web site , www.recovery.gov , will show taxpayers how their money is being spent , Obama said Saturday .

3 But not everyone is on board just yet -- including an influential Democrat .

3 Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad , D-North Dakota , is skeptical about the job numbers .

3 ` I think we have to have some question about the number , simply because most of the models that determine you can create that number of jobs are based on the financial system working normally , ' he said on CNN 's ` State of the Union with John King ' on Sunday .

3 Conrad said while he thinks Obama 's stimulus plan is ` wise , ' other key questions need to be answered : ` Are we doing enough to help the financial sector ?
3 Are we doing enough about housing ? '

3 ` Because if we do n't get those two right , we 're not going to see the kind of lift out of this downturn that we need , ' he added .

3 But a new national poll suggests that a majority of Americans think it will take the country two years or longer to recover from the current recession .
3 Only 13 percent of those questioned in a CNN\/Opinion Research Corp. survey released Wednesday think the economy will recover within a year .

3 Twenty-seven percent think it will take up to two years and 59 percent feel it will take two years or longer to recover from the current recession , which has already lasted 13 months .

3 While Obama extended the proverbial olive branch to Republicans during a meeting last week , there is still skepticism over key fundamental differences .

3 ` The American people know we can not borrow and spend and bail our way back to a growing economy , ' said Rep. Mike Pence , R-Indiana Sunday .

1 House Minority Leader John Boehner , who was critical of former President Bush 's economic bailout program , said Friday the proposed $ 825 billion House plan wo n't go over well with many Republicans .

1 ` I think a lot of Republicans will vote no , because they see this as a lot of wasteful Washington spending , padding the bureaucracy and doing nothing to help create jobs and preserve jobs , ' Boehner said on NBC Sunday .

3 Boehner cited in the past a recent non-partisan Congressional Budget Office review of the nearly $ 355 billion in spending aimed at infrastructure .
3 The report indicated that less than half the amount would actually be spent in the next two years .

3 House Speaker Nancy Pelosi argued Sunday that the CBO report does n't paint the whole picture .

3 ` First of all , the Congressional Budget Office only looked at 40 percent of the investments in the bill , by their own admission .
3 They did n't even take a complete look at the bill .
3 We have a letter from the administration that says 75 percent of the -- of the investments will be paid out in the first 18 months , ' Pelosi said on ABC 's ` This Week with George Stephanopoulos . '
3 iReport.com : What should Obama do first ?

3 Former Republican presidential candidate Sen. John McCain said Sunday that if the stimulus plan were up for a vote today , he would not support it -- though stopped short of saying whether or not he 'd filibuster it .

3 ` We need to have a permanent moratorium on new taxes and we also need to provide and not spend money on programs that will not have an immediate effect on our economy -- and it 's -LRB- Obama 's plan -RRB- filled with billions of dollars worth of spending that will not stimulate the economy .
3 ... Right now I could not vote for the stimulus package as it 's been presented . '

3 But CNN\/Opinion Research Corp. poll numbers released January 18 indicate that nearly 6 in 10 Americans support an increase in government spending to rev up the economy .

3 Fifty-eight percent of those questioned favor increased government spending to stimulate the economy compared with 4 in 10 who oppose it .

3 Sen. Chuck Schumer , D-New York , said he expects Republicans to rally behind the stimulus package .

3 ` I think you 're going to find a large number of Republicans voting for this package .
3 There has been a lot of input .
3 I regret that Sen. McCain has said he 's not going to vote for it , ' Schumer said on ` Fox News Sunday . '
