3 Afghanistan : Can Obama succeed in the ` land of the unruly ? ' - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- The ancient Persians called it ` the land of the unruly . '
1 Historians call it ` the graveyard of empires . '
3 President Obama calls Afghanistan something else : The ` central front ' in the battle against terrorism .

2 Afghanistan has defied armies led by military leaders including Alexander the Great and Genghis Khan .
3 Now Obama 's new administration will attempt to accomplish what few leaders have been able to do : stabilize Afghanistan .

3 Obama says he wants to start by adding U.S. troops to Afghanistan .
1 Although some believe that a ` surge ' helped in Iraq , there is no military solution for stabilizing Afghanistan , several military and political experts say .

2 ` Controlling the Afghan people is a losing proposition , ' says Stephen Tanner , author of ` Afghanistan : A Military History from Alexander the Great to the Fall of the Taliban . '
2 ` No one has ever been able to control the country . '

3 Afghan President Hamid Karzai is struggling to control the country now , Tanner says .
3 The landlocked nation , which is roughly the size of Texas , has no strong national police , he says ; its citizens are averse to taxes and a strong central government .

3 Afghans seem to unite only when a foreign army occupies their country , Tanner says .

3 ` The people are so disunited within that they ca n't resist an invader at the border , ' Tanner says .
3 ` But once you 're in , you 're surrounded by them . '

2 The resurgence of the Taliban will complicate Obama 's plans as well , Tanner says .

1 The Taliban are making a comeback .
3 Since 2004 , the last year of relative calm , annual acts of violence have increased from about 900 to 8,950 in 2007 and roadside bombs from 325 incidents to 1,469 , Tanner says .

3 U.S. and coalition documents , based on NATO statistics , show more than a 30 percent increase in such attacks from January to December 2008 .
2 Last year , attacks by Taliban and al Qaeda forces around the country increased 31 percent .
3 Since January 2008 , U.S. and NATO troop deaths rose 26 percent , according to the statistics .
3 Afghan security forces deaths rose 64 percent in the same period .

3 The government has also degenerated .
3 It has become a corrupt ` narco state , ' with opium trade providing nearly half of the country 's gross national product , Tanner says .

3 There are about 30,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan , but there are plans to add 15,000 troops .
3 Defense Secretary Robert Gates briefed Obama on Monday about adding U.S. troops to Afghanistan , which would ultimately involve sending two additional combat brigades and a brigade of trainers for Afghan security forces .

3 It is clear that Obama intends to focus more on Afghanistan .
3 He called it ` the central front in our battle against terrorism ' in a CBS ` Face the Nation ' interview .

3 ` I think one of the biggest mistakes we 've made strategically after 9\/11 was to fail to finish the job .
3 ... We got distracted by Iraq , ' Obama says .

3 Said T. Jawad , the Afghan ambassador to the United States , says the Afghan people would welcome a temporary increase in U.S. troops to make the country and its borders more secure .
3 But the U.S. military will alienate Afghans if it continues to strike with unmanned Predator drones instead of surgical commando operations to go after the Taliban , Jawad says .

3 ` In the long run , the real security solution is to be found in the capacity of the Afghan police and army , ' he says .

3 Should the U.S. negotiate with the Taliban ?

2 Obama 's policy toward Afghanistan wo n't just revolve around force , though , believes Caroline Wadhams , senior national security policy analyst for the Center for American Progress , a progressive Washington think tank .

3 She says Obama wants to accelerate training of the Afghan police , reduce corruption , increase economic development and possibly negotiate with the Taliban .

3 ` It 's never been just about the troops for Obama , ' Wadhams says .
3 ` More troops are part of a bigger strategic shift .
3 The Obama administration wants to engage Afghanistan more deeply than the Bush administration . '

3 President Obama has talked about a ` more for more ' strategy , which will commit more troops to the effort in Afghanistan , but would be looking for more help from its allies and from the Afghan government .

3 The U.S. will also increase aid to strengthen the Afghan government , including additional aid for education , infrastructure and human services .
3 It will also help fund alternative livelihoods for farmers who abandon producing opium .

3 But that aid will be tied to better performance by the government on fighting corruption and establishing rule of law .

3 Any ultimate solution to Afghanistan 's challenges would have to involve political negotiations with two players : Pakistan and the Taliban , some say .

3 Pakistan gives the Taliban financial and logistical support , along with sanctuary , says Jawad , Afghanistan 's U.S. ambassador .

3 ` The reason we have not been able to establish sustainable peace and stability has been Pakistan , ' Jawad says .
3 ` We were able to push the Taliban out of power , but we pushed them out into the countryside and Pakistan , where they were able to reorganize . '

3 Richard Holbrooke , who was just appointed as an envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan , will be making a first trip to the region next week .
3 He wants Karzai to crack down on corruption and Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari to crack down on extremists on Pakistan 's border with Afghanistan .

3 Tanner , the military historian , says just cracking down on the Taliban is a mistake -- some would be open to negotiations .

3 ` The Taliban are no longer all hardcore fanatics , ' Tanner says .
3 ` There are a lot of moderate elements .
3 You have to bring the Taliban into the Afghan government , not to take it over but to at least participate . '

3 Afghanistan 's bloody history 

3 Afghans are filled with a fierce nationalism that goes back centuries .

1 Milton Bearden , a former CIA station chief who worked in Afghanistan , once called the country a ` graveyard of empires ' in a Foreign Affairs magazine essay .
2 He says its tribesmen almost killed Alexander the Great when he invaded and bloodied Genghis Khan 's armies so much that the Mongol leader gained control ` only after reaching painful accommodations with the Afghans . '

1 Afghanistan 's history is so steeped in violence that some historians say the ancient Persians called it the ` land of the unruly ' -LRB- others say the term was coined by an Afghan king -RRB- .

3 Joel Hafvenstein , author of ` Opium Season , ' is an American who spent years working in Afghanistan among the people .
3 He went there to help reduce the country 's opium harvest .

3 He says Afghans are a lot like Americans : They 're filled with a powerful national pride .

3 ` Even broadly pro-Western friends of mine still do n't really consider their country ` free ' as long as foreign soldiers are here , and each airstrike that kills civilians reduces tolerance for foreign military forces around the country , ' he says .

3 The Taliban are seen as a foreign force by many Afghans , Hafvenstein says .

3 ` Many Afghans saw the Taliban as an occupation army funded by Pakistan and various Arab countries , and were willing to tolerate a U.S. \/ NATO military presence in Afghanistan as a lesser evil , ' he says .

3 Hafvenstein says he saw something else in the Afghan people that Obama -- and U.S. troops -- would be happy to see more of in the coming years .

3 ` I 've been surprised by the gentleness of most Afghans I know , ' he says .
3 ` You come here laboring under these stereotypes of the ferocious Afghan , and you find instead that most people are extremely gentle and compassionate -- and extremely determined with a knack for survival . '
