3 So who will Obama meet first ? - CNN.com .
3 LONDON , England -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Everyone wants to be the friend of newly inaugurated U.S. President Barack Obama -- none more so than leaders in Europe .

3 Many claim he has already had his first meeting with a foreign head of state .

1 Obama met Mexican President Felipe Calderon last week , afterwards telling media that there was an ` extraordinary relationship . '

3 ` My message today is that my administration is going to be ready on Day One to build a stronger relationship with Mexico , ' President Obama added .

1 But the meeting had less to do with Obama 's intentions -- although he is keen for a strong relationship with Mexico -- and more to do with tradition .

1 Every incoming U.S. president since Ronald Reagan in 1980 has made a point of holding talks with his counterpart across the border before taking his place in the Oval Office .

3 The office of the Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper also stated earlier this month that Obama will meet his North American counterpart for his first presidential foreign trip -- although no date has been set .

3 But who will Obama meet first beyond those immediate neighbors , especially in Europe ?

1 Any move is likely to hinge on Obama 's keenness to repair some of the damage caused by U.S. foreign policy during George W. Bush 's administration , and in particular the split with continental Europe over the 2003 invasion of Iraq .

1 That military action was backed by British Prime Minister Tony Blair , but such support could count against his successor Gordon Brown in his relationship with Obama .

3 Brown 's spokesman played down the relevance of being the first leader to meet Obama in comments reported by the British Press Association Tuesday .

3 ` We would n't attach too much importance to who has what meetings when , ' said the spokesman .

3 ` The important thing is whether or not you share the same values and have similar approaches and are able to work together on challenges . '

3 Britain 's traditional rivals , Germany and France , both opposed the invasion .

3 Nicolas Sarkozy gave Obama a warm welcome at the Elysee Palace , the official Parisian residence of the French presidents , when he visited in July -- and afforded him a much higher profile press conference than that given to Republican rival John McCain -LRB- in contrast Brown gave both leaders equal treatment -RRB- .

3 Then French President Jacques Chirac was also the first European leader to visit President George W. Bush , the previous holder of the Oval Office , in 2005 .

1 And then there is Chancellor Angela Merkel and Germany , which Obama visited in July , drawing a crowd of some 200,000 people to a speech at the Victory Column in a central Berlin park .

3 Commentators said the event evoked the historic ` I am a Berliner ' delivery in 1963 by then U.S. President John F Kennedy , who Obama has been compared to .

3 Of course Obama could look beyond Europe and perhaps make his first meeting with a leader from the Middle East , Asia -- or even Mwai Kibaki , president of Kenya , the new U.S. president 's ancestral homeland .
3 After all , Obama 's presidency has long heralded its fresh approach to the rest of the world .

3 But perhaps his priorities have been hinted at in comments made by Hillary Clinton , the designated U.S. secretary of state , earlier this week .

3 ` The new administration will reach out across the Atlantic to leaders in France , Germany , the United Kingdom and others including and especially , the new democracies . '

3 After words like that , who would bet against the nation that gave America the Statue of Liberty being the first to take a phonecall from the 44th U.S. president ?
