1 Obama praises McCain , calls for bipartisan cooperation - CNN.com .
2 WASHINGTON -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- President-elect Barack Obama called his former Republican presidential rival , Sen. John McCain , a hero at a bipartisan dinner Monday night and encouraged politicians to reach across the aisle .

2 ` I could stand here and recite the long list of John 's bipartisan accomplishments ... ' Obama said .

3 ` Campaign finance reform .
3 Immigration .
3 The Patients ' Bill of Rights .
3 All those times he has crossed the aisle and risked the ire of his party for the good of his country .
3 And yet , what makes John such a rare and courageous public servant is not the accomplishments themselves , but the true motivation behind them . '

2 McCain returned the gracious feelings at the dinner .

3 ` I am very grateful to the president-elect and to all of you for this very considerate gesture , and for allowing me to play a small role in the inauguration of the 44th president of the United States , even if it is n't the one I had in mind a few months ago , ' McCain said .

3 ` Tomorrow , the President-elect will accept the burdensome privilege of leading America to its next accomplishments and its future greatness , ' McCain went on to say .
1 ` He has my sincere best wishes for his success , and my promise of assistance .
3 For his success will be our success . '

3 After praising McCain , Obama urged everyone to take the bipartisan dinner past ` just an inaugural tradition ' and turn it into a ` new way of doing the people 's business in this city . '

3 ` We will not always agree on everything in the months to come , and we will have our share of arguments and debates , ' Obama said .
3 ` But let us strive always to find that common ground , and to defend together those common ideals , for it is the only way we can meet the very big and very serious challenges that we face right now . '

3 On the eve of his inauguration , the president-elect even made time for a joke .

2 ` I 'm here tonight to say a few words about an American hero I have come to know very well and admire very much -- Sen. John McCain , ' Obama said as he opened his speech .
3 ` And then , according to the rules agreed to by both parties , John will have approximately 30 seconds to make a rebuttal . '

3 Obama 's speech at the bipartisan dinner capped a day filled by appearances , including visiting wounded soldiers and exhorting Americans to spend more time in the service of others .

2 In Washington people took in the sights of pre-inauguration activities and concerts .

3 ` The energy on the streets is something I 've never seen before , ' said Nancy Wigal , who lives in Vernon Square .
3 ` People are walking lighter , standing taller and are reaching out to one another .
3 It feels like hope .
3 It feels like shared happiness . '

3 Wigal said Obama 's inauguration has given residents hope that change actually will happen .

3 ` It 's all because of Obama -- we dare to feel positive that we may have actually elected a leader , not just a politician , ' she said .
3 ` There are impromptu progressive dinner parties , cookouts and house parties .
3 We finally feel like a real change has come to town . '

3 Obama began his day with a surprise visit to wounded soldiers at Walter Reed Army Medical Center .
3 He met with 14 patients injured in either Iraq or Afghanistan .

3 Obama visited a National Day of Service project , stopping by the Sasha Bruce House , an emergency shelter for homeless teenagers in the Washington area .

3 The shelter provides a variety of services , including counseling , job training , and substance abuse prevention assistance , for up to 15 teenagers at a time .

3 Roughly 30 teenagers are spending the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. holiday volunteering at the shelter by helping to renovate a dorm room .

3 Obama rolled up his sleeves and pitched in during the visit , using a roller to help paint a couple of walls and a piece of furniture .

3 He also quoted King to the teenagers , noting that ` everybody can be great -LRB- because -RRB- everybody can serve . '

3 ` Do n't underestimate the power of people who join together to accomplish amazing things , ' Obama added .
3 Given the crisis America is currently in , ` we ca n't allow any idle hands .
1 Everybody 's got to pitch in . '

3 Wigal said Obama 's actions and words make her believe the president-elect has the skills needed to help the country move forward .

3 ` Those of us who live and work here , who try to create , shape , influence and move policy forward , are feeling as if we can finally do something that 'll result in forward motion , ' Wigal said .
3 ` We believe we have a leader who listens to those who work the issues every day and know the real solutions . '

3 For Wigal , that 's exactly what makes Inauguration Day so important .

3 ` Tomorrow is going to be the biggest day in our country 's history since its creation , ' she said .

3 During Monday 's activities Obama also cited the heroics of U.S. Airways pilot Chesley Sullenberger , who safely landed a crippled commercial airliner in the Hudson River last Thursday , saving the lives of all 155 people on board .

3 ` If everybody did their job as well as he did -LRB- his -RRB- job , we would be in pretty good shape , ' Obama said .

3 Obama has personally invited Sullenberger to the inauguration .

3 Obama later joined Vice President-elect Joe Biden at a high school where students were making blankets and greeting cards , among other things , for soldiers overseas .

3 Speaking to the students , Obama again invoked King 's memory , noting the slain civil rights leader had ` dedicated his life to working at the grassroots level ... on behalf of justice and equality . '

3 ` I am making a commitment to you , as your next president , that we are going to make government work , ' Obama said .
3 But , he warned , ` government can only do so much .
3 If we 're just waiting around for someone else to do it for us ... it never gets done .
2 We 're going to have to take responsibility , all of us . '

3 Incoming first lady Michelle Obama , joined by Jill Biden , the wife of the vice president-elect , spent the morning at a separate volunteer service event at RFK Stadium , where people were assembling care packages for soldiers serving in Iraq and Afghanistan .

3 Martin Luther King Jr. Day is traditionally viewed as a day to encourage greater volunteerism .
