1 Famed author John Updike dies of cancer at 76 - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Author John Updike , regarded as one of the greatest and most prolific writers in modern American letters , died Tuesday , his publicist said .
1 He was 76 .

1 Updike passed away Tuesday morning after battling lung cancer .
3 He lived in Beverly Farms , Massachusetts .

3 ` He was one of our greatest writers , and he will be sorely missed , ' said Nicholas Latimer , vice president of publicity at Updike 's publisher , Alfred A. Knopf .

1 Updike was a rarity among American writers : a much-esteemed , prize-winning author whose books -- including ` Rabbit , Run ' ( 1960 ) , ` Couples ' ( 1968 ) , ` The Witches of Eastwick ' ( 1984 ) and ` Terrorist ' ( 2006 ) -- were also best-sellers .
1 Updike won the Pulitzer Prize twice : for ` Rabbit Is Rich ' ( 1981 ) and its successor , ` Rabbit at Rest ' ( 1991 ) .

2 The ` Rabbit ' series , about an angst-ridden car dealer in a town much like Updike 's hometown of Shillington , Pennsylvania , spanned four novels , a novella and four decades .
3 In the books -- which also included 1971 's ` Rabbit Redux ' and a 2001 novella , ` Rabbit Remembered ' -- onetime basketball star Harry ` Rabbit ' Angstrom negotiates marriage , divorce , wealth and health problems , never quite understanding the larger forces shaping his life .

3 ` Rabbit is not a character calculated to inspire affection , but he is an unflinchingly authentic specimen of American manhood , and his boorishness makes his rare moments of vulnerability and empathy that much more heartbreaking , ' wrote Time 's Lev Grossman in naming ` Rabbit , Run ' to Time 's ` All-Time 100 Novels ' list .

3 Updike was incredibly prolific , penning essays , reviews , short stories , poetry and memoirs .
3 His works frequently appeared in The New Yorker , including a famed 1960 essay about Ted Williams ' final game , ` Hub Fans Bid Kid Adieu . '

3 ` No writer was more important to the soul of The New Yorker than John , ' said David Remnick , the editor of the magazine , in a statement .
3 ` Even though his literary career transcended any magazine -- he was obviously among the very best writers in the world -- he still loved writing for this weekly magazine , loved being part of an enterprise that he joined when he was so young .

3 ` We adored him , ' Remnick continued .
3 ` He was , for so long , the spirit of The New Yorker and it is very hard to imagine things without him . '

3 The magazine said that Updike had written 862 pieces for it over the years , including 327 book reviews , 170 short stories and 154 poems .

3 He was well-regarded in his adopted home state of Massachusetts .

2 ` John Updike 's place among America 's literary greats is forever secure , as is his special place in every Red Sox fan 's heart for his magnificent ` Hub Fans Bid Kid Adieu , ' ' Sen. John Kerry -LRB- D-Massachusetts -RRB- said in a statement .
3 ` We honor his memory and his contributions , and Massachusetts today bids him a sad and wistful adieu of our own . '

3 Updike never won a Nobel Prize , but one of his characters , Henry Bech , received one in ` Bech at Bay ' (1998) .

3 His works , particularly given their sexual content , could be as divisive as they were poetic .
3 Many critics accused him of misogyny , and others accused him of using his graceful prose to cover thin subject matter -- and Updike put out his prose by the ream .

3 ` It seems to be easier for John Updike to stifle a yawn than to refrain from writing a book , ' the literary critic James Wood wrote in the London Review of Books in 2001 .

3 But his frank discussion of sex also garnered him many readers , the cover of Time magazine -LRB- for 1968 's ` Couples ' -RRB- and a lifetime achievement Bad Sex in Writing award from Great Britain 's Literary Review .

3 He was criticized by Norman Mailer , hailed by fellow author -LRB- and Updike obsessive -RRB- Nicholson Baker in ` U and I ' and even appeared as an animated version of himself on a ` Simpsons ' episode as the ghostwriter of a Krusty the Klown book . '

3 -LRB- I -RRB- was flattered to be asked to be one of the many voices that they worked into the endless saga of Springfield , ' Updike said , noting that the hardest part of his performance was ` producing a chuckle . '

3 John Hoyer Updike was born March 18 , 1932 , in Reading , Pennsylvania , and grew up in Shillington .
3 From an early age he took to reading and writing , and earned a full scholarship to Harvard , where he headed the Harvard Lampoon .
3 Upon graduation , he accepted a one-year fellowship to Oxford University in England .
3 By the time he was 23 , he had been offered a position at The New Yorker , which was to become his literary home over the next 50-plus years .

3 Updike 's first novel , ` The Poorhouse Fair , ' came out in 1959 .
2 The next year , in ` Rabbit , Run , ' he introduced Angstrom , who was to become one of the most famous characters in American fiction .

3 When introduced , Rabbit is a man fleeing his pregnant wife , the songs on the car radio reflecting both the era and his life .
3 Over the course of the ` Rabbit ' books , the character would routinely infuriate his spouse , mistresses and offspring , try to make things right , and never quite succeed .

3 His attitude did n't help .
3 ` Men are all heart and women are all body .
3 I do n't know who has the brains .
3 God maybe , ' the character said in ` Rabbit , Run . '

3 ` Rabbit , Run ' was successful , as were Updike 's other '60s books , including ` The Centaur ' ( 1963 ) , which featured a teacher much like Updike 's father , and the short story collection ` The Music School ' ( 1966 ) .
3 But it was ` Couples ' that made Updike a household name .
3 The book , about a group of spouses engaging in the sexual revolution in suburban Massachusetts , became a No. 1 best-seller .

3 Updike 's interests ranged widely .
3 He wrote about an African state in ` The Coup ' ( 1978 ) .
3 He discussed the relationship between science and religion in ` Roger 's Version ' ( 1986 ) .
3 He revisited ` Hamlet ' in ` Gertrude and Claudius ' ( 2000 ) .
1 And he created a group of promiscuous witches in ` The Witches of Eastwick ' ( 1984 ) , which became a hit movie in 1987 starring Jack Nicholson as the devil .

3 Though Updike 's work routinely sold well , he was painfully aware of the decline of what 's come to be called ` literary fiction . '
3 In a 2000 interview with Salon , he lamented its difficulties .

3 ` When I was a boy , the best-selling books were often the books that were on your piano teacher 's shelf .
3 I mean , Steinbeck , Hemingway , some Faulkner .
3 Faulkner actually had , considering how hard he is to read and how drastic the experiments are , quite a middle-class readership , ' he said .
3 ` But certainly someone like Steinbeck was a best-seller as well as a Nobel Prize-winning author of high intent .
3 You do n't feel that now . '

3 And yet , Updike himself never lost his zest for the written word , and the pleasure brought by jotting , tuning , refining -- creating -- a new story , even as the years drifted by .

3 ` An aging writer has the not insignificant satisfaction of a shelf of books behind him that , as they wait for their ideal readers to discover them , will outlast him for a while , ' he wrote in AARP The Magazine late last year .
3 ` The pleasures , for him , of book-making ... remain , and retain creation 's giddy bliss .
3 Among those diminishing neurons there lurks the irrational hope that the last book might be the best . '
3 Updike 's most recent novel , ` The Widows of Eastwick , ' came out in 2008 .
3 A collection of stories , ` My Father 's Tears and Other Stories , ' is due out later this year .
