2 Olympic etiquette : ` Eight do n't asks ' - CNN.com .
1 BEIJING , China -LRB- AP -RRB- -- Questions about salaries are out .
1 Ditto queries about the age of a foreigner visiting Beijing for the Olympics .
1 And an inquiry about someone 's love life ?
1 Forget it .

2 These are part of the ` Eight do n't asks ' displayed on posters in a central Beijing district that give conversational etiquette guidelines to residents for when they meet foreigners or disabled athletes during next month 's Olympics .

1 The advice on Chinese-language posters was put together by the propaganda department of Dongcheng district to educate residents on how to properly welcome visitors during the Olympics , a spokeswoman for the district said .

3 Dongcheng includes Tiananmen Square and the Forbidden City .
3 It is also the location of the Beijing Workers ' Gymnasium , the boxing venue for the August 8-24 Olympics .

3 One poster focuses on ` etiquette when communicating with foreigners . '
1 Locals are instructed not to ask foreigners personal questions about their age , salary , love life , health , income , political views , religious beliefs or personal experiences .

3 ` It 's normal for Chinese to ask people they just met such questions , but foreigners respond negatively to such questions , ' Beijing municipal government spokeswoman Wang Zhaoqian said Wednesday .

3 ` By educating locals , we hope that they will become more socially sensitive when communicating with visitors , ' she said .

3 Another poster gives advice on talking to disabled people .
3 Locals are told not to use phrases such as ` It 's up there , ' or ` It 's over there ' when talking to anyone who is visually impaired , and to avoid phrases such as ` It 's behind you ' to physically impaired athletes .

1 Instead , locals are recommended to use phrases such as , ` You are really great , ' or ` You are wonderful . '

3 In May , Beijing organizers apologized for a training manual issued to thousands of Olympic and Paralympic volunteers following complaints about inappropriate language used to describe disabled athletes .

1 The posters are part of wide-ranging measures the government has taken to clean up China 's image during the Olympics .
3 China 's communist government and Beijing Olympic organizers have been conducting sweeping campaigns to get citizens to wait patiently in line , stop spitting and improve their driving habits .
