3 Caught in the opt-out trap - CNN.com .
2 -LRB- Tribune Media Services -RRB- -- When Angela Gross buys a ticket through Frontier Airlines ' Web site , it tacks on an extra $ 10.95 for travel insurance .
3 How did it manage to do that ?
1 By having a checked box on the booking screen that she had to opt out of .
1 Now Frontier is balking at a refund .

2 Q : I have a question about travel insurance that I bought online when I booked airline tickets .
1 Actually , I did n't mean to buy the insurance .
1 I was on the Frontier Airlines Web site , and there was a little box that was automatically checked that indicated I wanted to pay an extra $ 10.95 for travel insurance .

3 It was a lot like one of those pre-checked boxes that sign you up for sales campaign e-mails from a company .
3 Only this time , I had to pay for it .
3 The box was hard to see and the purchase did n't show up until after I bought the ticket .

2 Frontier says it ca n't help me , and that I have to go through the travel insurance company for a refund .
1 The insurance company , AIG Travel Guard , has n't responded to any of my requests .
2 I do n't think it should be a default setting to purchase travel insurance , and I want my money back .
3 Can you help me ?
3 -- Angela Gross , Englewood , Colorado 

3 A : Frontier should n't have charged you for insurance you did n't want .
3 The airline engaged in something I call unethical pre-checking -- signing you up for a service you did n't want .

3 The least it could do is offer a fast refund .
3 Instead , it punted to AIG Travel Guard .
3 Needless to say , AIG should have quickly refunded your money , too .
1 Instead , it stalled .

3 What 's the world coming to ?

3 When both companies balked at a refund , you should have written a brief , polite e-mail to both companies requesting a refund .
3 To underscore your seriousness , why not copy the Transportation Department and the insurance commission for the state in which you live ?
3 Since those agencies track the number of complaints they get about companies , they 'll be particularly interested in what you have to say .

3 If that does n't work , try escalating your complaint to an executive .
3 E-mail works best .
3 At Frontier , e-mail addresses are formatted as follows : first initial last name -LRB- no space -RRB- @flyfrontier.com ; at AIG , it 's firstname.lastname@aig.com .
3 I 'm giving you the conventions because the names of executives can change , but e-mail address formats generally do n't .

3 Pre-checking a box is frowned upon in the online community .
3 The more accepted practice is to opt in to a service or purchase -- in other words , checking the box if you want to buy insurance .
1 I asked both companies for a response .

3 AIG spokesman Dan McGinnity said you should be able to get a full refund for your policy and that his company has no control over the way in which its products are sold by a third party .
3 ` We do offer a full refund for clients who decide they do not want the travel insurance protection , as long as they contact us prior to their trip , ' he said .
3 A small percentage of Frontier 's customers -- less than half of 1 percent -- have asked for their money back .

3 Steve Snyder , a spokesman for Frontier , said the airline should have offered you a full and immediate refund when you phoned , but defended the practice of pre-checking .
3 ` Quite frankly , ' he told me , ` we are selling a product that we believe in . '
3 He noted that travel insurance covers items that typically cause people to change their flights , ` and we think $ 10.95 insurance is a better deal than a $ 150 change fee plus fare difference . '

3 Since your query , Frontier ` made some changes ' to its site to make the opt-out box as obvious as possible , according to Snyder .
3 While I applaud that , I think there 's one more change that ought to be made : to allow passengers to opt in -- not out .
1 Frontier refunded you $ 10.95 .
