1 Biden assures Pakistan of support against terrorism - CNN.com .
1 ISLAMABAD , Pakistan -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- U.S. Vice President-elect Joe Biden assured Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari on Friday that the incoming Obama administration will continue to support Pakistan 's efforts to strengthen democracy and combat terrorism , according to Pakistan 's Ministry of Foreign Affairs .

3 Biden told Zardari that the new U.S. administration would also help Pakistan ` meet its socio-economic requirements and capacity building , ' the ministry said in a written statement .

1 The vice president-elect ` assured the Pakistani leadership ' of the United States ' ` continued assistance to Pakistan , ' the statement said .

3 No additional details were provided .

1 Sen. Lindsey Graham , R-South Carolina , accompanied Biden on the trip .

2 Biden ` described Pakistan as an incredibly valued U.S. ally and said that the U.S. recognized Pakistan 's important contribution and sacrifices in the fight against terrorism , ' the ministry said .

3 Zardari , who took office in September , said ` Pakistan needed the support and understanding of the international community in this effort , ' according to the statement .

2 Pakistan 's government is waging a bloody battle against Taliban and al Qaeda militants in its tribal regions along the border with Afghanistan .
3 The United States has provided Pakistan with billions of dollars in aid for those counterterrorism activities .

3 Last year , the Senate Foreign Relations Committee passed a bill authorizing $ 7.5 billion in non-military aid over the next five years .

3 The measure is sponsored by committee chairman Biden and the ranking Republican on the panel , Sen. Richard Lugar of Indiana .
3 It would provide money for developments such as schools , roads and medical clinics , and it conditions security aid on State Department certification that Pakistan is making efforts against the Taliban and al Qaeda .

3 The bill has not come before the full Senate .

1 Biden also said he was hopeful that India and Pakistan could resolve their conflicts , according the ministry .

1 ` The U.S. vice president-elect expressed the hope that both Pakistan and India will be able to overcome the current tensions and would resolve their differences peacefully , ' the ministry 's statement said .

3 November 's attacks in Mumbai , India , fueled tensions between Pakistan and India , longtime rivals that have fought three wars since independence and conducted tit-for-tat nuclear weapons tests in 1998 .

3 India has said Islamic militants trained in Pakistan were behind the three-day siege of India 's financial capital .
3 Pakistani officials have promised to cooperate with the investigation but have insisted that India show it the evidence supporting its case .

3 On Wednesday , Pakistan 's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said the sole surviving suspect in the Mumbai attacks , which killed more than 160 people , is a Pakistani national , state-run media reported .
