3 Make your home healthier in five easy steps - CNN.com .
3 You may think your home is safe , but there may be toxins in your water , linens , and even your deck .
3 There are several simple steps you can take to make your kitchen , living spaces , playroom , and backyard healthier for you and your family .
3 Here 's what to do : 

3 IN THE KITCHEN 

3 Potential danger : Nonstick cookware 

2 The scoop : Pans that let cookies slide off easily and make cleanup a cinch contain perfluorochemicals -LRB- or PFCs -RRB- , which have been shown to cause cancer , hormone disruption , and hypothyroidism in animals .
3 In humans , they 've been linked to a decreased ability to fight infection , as well as low birth weight in babies whose mothers were exposed to them during pregnancy .
3 PFCs are found in the linings of fast-food packaging and most microwave-popcorn bags to keep grease from soaking through -LRB- as well as in some furniture and carpeting -RRB- .

3 Healthy-home fixes : It 's not clear whether humans are at risk from day-to-day exposure , but environmental health experts recommend these commonsense precautions : 

1 &#8226; Turn down the heat !
3 Do n't preheat an empty pan , and keep burners on medium while cooking .
2 ` It 's when nonstick pans get too hot that they emit potentially dangerous fumes , ' says pediatrician Alan Greene , M.D. , author of ` Raising Baby Green . '

3 &#8226; Replace flaky , peeling pans when they start to go .
3 Switch to old-fashioned stainless steel or cast iron , or try one of the new PFC-free nonstick pans on the market .

3 &#8226; Take your takeout out of the containers , and serve it on plates .

3 &#8226; Pop popcorn on the stove , or use an air popper .

3 IN THE KITCHEN

1 Potential danger : Pollutants in tap water 

3 The scoop : Here 's something you can worry less about .
3 ` Tap water is more regulated than bottled water , ' says Dr. Paulson .
3 However , it can vary greatly from region to region .
2 An analysis of tap-water data from 19 cities by the Natural Resources Defense Council -LRB- NRDC -RRB- , for instance , revealed elevated levels of lead , arsenic , and other hazardous chemicals .

3 Healthy-home fixes : 

1 &#8226; Find out what 's in your water .
3 Your community water department is required by the Environmental Protection Agency -LRB- EPA -RRB- to regularly review the makeup of local water supplies and publish those results .
3 If you do n't get a report in the mail once or twice a year , call and ask for one .
3 For a guide to understanding water-safety facts and figures , go to safe-drinking-water .
3 org .

3 &#8226; Test your own H2O with a simple kit from Everpure -LRB- $ 85 ; everpure.com -RRB- .
3 After sending in a sample of your water , you 'll receive detailed results , plus the best ways to filter out any impurities that the test turned up .

3 &#8226; And then , use a filter .
3 ` Many contaminants can be removed with a simple activated-carbon one , ' says Anne Steinemann , director of The Water Center at the University of Washington , in Seattle .
3 These are the relatively inexpensive filters that attach at the faucet or below the sink .
3 Parenting.com : Great greenware for eating and drinking .

3 However , there are some water contaminants -LRB- percholate , a by-product of rocket fuel , for example -RRB- that may require a reverse-osmosis filter .
3 These under-sink units are expensive and waste some water in order to clean it , but they may be worth it if you live in an area with heavily contaminated H2O .
3 Whatever type of filter you choose , look for one labeled as meeting NSF\/ANSI Standard 53 , which means that the manufacturer 's claims have been verified .
3 You can find a more detailed explanation of water-filter options at waterfiltercomparisons.net .

3 IN THE FAMILY ROOM AND BEDROOMS

3 Potential danger : Chemical flame retardants in bedding and furniture 

3 The scoop : Tons of household products contain chemicals called PBDEs , which slow the rate at which something burns .
3 The problem is , PBDEs have been shown to interfere with a child 's developing nervous system , causing problems with memory and attention .
3 What 's more , they have widely contaminated the environment and even our bodies .
3 Although there 's still a scarcity of data regarding the danger to humans , several states are concerned enough to have banned the production and sale of certain PBDEs .

3 Healthy-home fixes : 

3 &#8226; Keep your house as dust-free as possible .
3 -LRB- Yes , not easy for a busy family ! -RRB-
3 ` PBDEs like to attach to dust particles , ' says Sarah Janssen , M.D. , a science fellow at the NRDC in San Francisco .
3 ` And kids are especially likely to be exposed because they spend so much time on the floor and put things in their mouths . '

3 &#8226; Make small changes now .
3 No need to chuck all the flame-retardant items in your house , but do consider replacing some .

3 ` Start with your children 's bedrooms , since kids spend so much time in there and their faces are close to their bedding all night , ' Greene says .
3 When you buy new bedding , switch to the organic-cotton kind -LRB- organic fibers are never treated with PBDEs , so opting for organic sheets and pillowcases is one way to make sure you avoid them -RRB- .
3 If you 're ready to replace mattresses -LRB- including crib mattresses -RRB- , consider looking for ones that meet flame-retardant standards without using chemicals .
3 Also , toss old ` egg crate ' foam mattress pads , since they 're coated with flame retardants .
3 A list of companies that make PBDE-free mattresses and bedding can be found at ewg.org/pbdefree .

3 &#8226; Make bigger changes later .
3 When it comes time to buy new furniture , many experts feel it 's worth a little extra effort to find PBDE-free options .
3 Most products are n't labeled as such , so you 'll have to ask questions at the store -LRB- or even call the manufacturer -RRB- to find out whether or not an item contains PBDEs .
3 As a general rule , pieces made of natural fibers such as cotton , wool , and hemp do n't catch fire easily or burn quickly , and so are less likely to be treated .
3 Ikea has stopped using PBDEs in its products ; other furniture manufacturers are catching on to the concerns about fire retardants .
3 For more information , go to cleanproduction.org/safer/about.php .

3 IN THE PLAYROOM

1 Potential danger : Lead in toys 

2 The scoop : You no doubt heard last year that hundreds of thousands of popular toys , including many based on characters from kid favorites like Dora the Explorer and Thomas the Tank Engine , were found to contain lead paint -- a dangerous neurotoxin that can hinder brain development and cause learning and behavioral problems -LRB- and which was banned by the government from house paint in 1978 -RRB- .
3 The toys were recalled , forcing parents to stealthily toss them in the dark of night -LRB- or return them to the company -RRB- .

3 Healthy-home fixes : There 's really no way to tell if a toy has lead .
3 -LRB- DIY tests are n't accurate , say most experts . -RRB-
3 Parenting.com : How to take recalled toys away

3 Keep an eye out for toy recalls related to lead paint .
3 You can sign up for e-mail alerts at recalls .
3 gov , and you can find an up-to-date listing of recalled toys here .

3 &#8226; Find out what 's in your kids ' toys at healthytoys.org , which lets you sort by specific toy , brand , or type .

3 &#8226; Know your child 's lead levels .
3 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention -LRB- CDC -RRB- and the American Academy of Pediatrics both recommend that kids be tested for lead at ages 1 and even 2 , if your pediatrician thinks it 's necessary based on factors like lead levels in your community .
3 Although results under ten micrograms per deciliter are considered normal , ` based on new research , you should pay attention to blood levels as low as two and find out how the lead exposure is happening , ' says Dr. Greene .

3 &#8226; Get the lead out .
3 Some states and cities have rules for dealing with household lead paint .
3 To find local contacts , go to epa .
3 gov\/lead or call 800-424-LEAD .

1 IN THE BACK YARD 

1 Potential danger : Arsenic-treated wood decks and play sets 

2 The scoop : It 's hard to fathom , but for decades , arsenic was added to outdoor wood as a preservative .
3 After evidence emerged that it could cause cancer in humans , the EPA banned the manufacture and sale of arsenic-treated wood for most uses .
3 However , wood decks and kids ' play sets built before 2004 usually contain arsenic .

3 So if you 've got any wood in your yard that 's more than four years old , you can take some simple precautions to protect your kids , who can ingest arsenic when they touch the wood or the soil underneath it and then put their hands in their mouths .
3 -LRB- If you want to know for sure whether wood in your back yard contains arsenic , you can buy a simple but reliable test kit , priced from $ 25 to $ 40 , at ewg.org . -RRB-

3 Healthy-home fixes : 

3 &#8226; Have your kids scrub up as soon as they come inside .
3 ` One study showed that washing with soap and water removes arsenic from hands and greatly reduces risk , ' says Dr. Greene .
3 Parenting.com : Shortcuts to keeping children clean 

3 &#8226; Do n't have your wood structures professionally cleaned with pressurized water .
3 The force of the water can release arsenic from the wood .
3 Parenting.com : Five ways to speed through cleaning 

3 &#8226; If you remove the deck or play set , do n't burn it or you 'll release arsenic into the air .

3 &#8226; Reseal outdoor wood at least once a year with latex paint or polyurethane , recommends the Environmental Working Group , a nonprofit organization devoted to reducing levels of harmful chemicals in the environment .
3 You can do this yourself or hire a pro , but either way , you 'll be taking just one more important step toward making your home as healthy as it can be .
