1 Dead rodents , excrement in peanut processor lead to recall - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- The Texas Department of State Health Services on Thursday ordered the recall of all products ever shipped from the Peanut Corporation of America 's plant in Plainview , Texas , after discovering dead rodents , rodent excrement and bird feathers in the plant .

1 The order , which applies to products shipped since the plant opened nearly four years ago , came a day after the discovery of filth in a crawl space above a production area during a health services inspection , Texas Health Department Press Officer Doug McBride told CNN in a telephone interview .

3 The plant 's ventilation system pulled debris ` from the infested crawl space into production areas of the plant resulting in the adulteration of exposed food products , ' a health department news release said .

1 Officials at the plant , which opened in March 2005 and produced oil-roasted peanuts , dry-roasted peanuts , peanut meal and granulated peanut , voluntarily stopped operations Monday night .

3 ` Our understanding is that the bulk of their products go to other food manufacturers , ' McBride said .
3 ` We 're not aware of any direct sales to consumers . '

3 The state has the authority to stop a company 's operations and order a recall if it finds ` a condition that poses an immediate and serious threat to human life or health , ' as was the case here , he said .

3 Though tests are being carried out to determine if the products contain salmonella or other disease-causing organisms , the orders are not contingent on what is found , he said .

3 The plant is barred from resuming operations without health services approval .

3 The company 's peanut butter and peanut paste products produced at its plant in Blakely , Georgia , have been linked to a nationwide outbreak of salmonella poisoning that has affected 600 people , killing nine .

3 A call to the company 's telephone number , which was working earlier this week , elicited a recording that said it was no longer in service .
