1 Pentagon officials sign nondisclosure forms - CNN.com .
2 WASHINGTON -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Defense Secretary Robert Gates is requiring officials working out the details of the next fiscal year 's defense budget to keep their discussions ` secret ' and he 's gone the extra step to ensure the secrecy .

1 Pentagon spokesman Geoff Morrell told reporters Wednesday that those involved in formulating the budget for fiscal year 2010 have been required to sign a nondisclosure form ` to create an environment in which the best possible budget can be built . '

3 ` This is highly sensitive stuff involving programs costing tens of billions of dollars , employing hundreds of thousands of people and go to the heart of national security , ' Morrell said .

3 The Pentagon classifies material about wars , intelligence and weapons every day , and though the move to make everyone sign the form is unusual , it is n't without precedent .

3 Gates wants the budgeting process ` to be as disciplined ' and ` as forthright as possible , ' Morrell said .

1 ` He thinks that by having people pledge not to speak out of school , if you will , on these matters while they are a work in progress , that you 'll create a climate in which you can ultimately produce a better product , because people can speak candidly with the confidence that it will not be leaked , ' Morrell said at a Pentagon news conference .

2 Gates believes the leaking of portions of the budget would be counterproductive , especially since most of the information under discussion is classified , the spokesman said ` Ultimately , this product ca n't be judged by the sum of its parts ; it 's got to be judged -LRB- as -RRB- a whole .
1 So if bits and pieces leak out , you start to tug on these strings and the whole thing could unravel .
3 This budget the secretary wants to be judged in its totality , because that 's where you will see the strategic balance he is trying to build . '

1 Gates and the Joint Chiefs of Staff are among those who signed the agreement , Morrell said .

2 Gates wants people participating in the work to do so with ` the confidence of knowing that what they are saying is not being leaked , it 's not being disseminated and , therefore , we can work together perhaps in a more collegial and honest way and come up with a better product , ' Morrell said .

3 Morrell commented on a questioner 's remark that there are ` criminal penalties ' if the ` information is secret and therefore classified . '

3 ` Classified information with potential criminal consequences gets leaked all the time .
3 This is to reinforce the message that indeed this is classified material .
3 These are highly secret discussions .
3 And we should remember that , be mindful of it and honor it . '

3 When asked how this level of secrecy squares with the Obama administration 's ` stated goal of maximum transparency , ' Morrell said he does n't think ` the administration has been advocating a transparency in national security matters .
3 I think that , at the end of this , it will be apparent to everyone where the secretary is and ... what the process has yielded . '
