2 Review : Hooray for ` Hellboy II ' - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Will Smith 's Hancock was n't the first superhero with bad habits and a bad attitude .
3 Hellboy , the protagonist of ` Hellboy II : The Golden Army , ' has a bit of the devil in him : His skin is red ; he has two shorn-off horns on his head , a gargantuan club fist and a long , slippery tail .

2 He also has a down-to-earth side : a fondness for Cuban cigars , Mexican beer , TV and candy .
3 He has a short fuse and he 'd like a little appreciation for his efforts , please .

3 He deserves it , too .

3 This rank outsider is n't a billionaire like Bruce Wayne or Tony Stark .
3 He 's not even a scientist like Bruce Banner .
2 He 's more of a working stiff , a slugger with a gruff manner and a stogie in the side of his mouth -- but he wants to bat for the right team .
3 -LRB- According to writer-artist Mike Mignola , the character was inspired by his father , a cabinetmaker . -RRB-

3 Hellboy -- or ` Red ' to his friends -- has switched studios since his 2004 big-screen debut , from Columbia to Universal .
3 Not that it shows .
2 Writer-director Guillermo del Toro is still pulling the strings , and the key creative personnel are all back , including Ron Perlman in the title role , Selma Blair as the pyrokinetic Liz -LRB- now Mrs. Hellboy -RRB- , Doug Jones as the piscine Abe Sapien -LRB- the brains to Red 's brawn -RRB- , and -- behind the scenes -- cinematographer Guillermo Navarro , and art whizzes Stephen Scott and Peter Francis .

2 Between them , they conjure up one hell of a creature feature .

2 ` Hellboy II ' boasts a dazzling multitude of imaginary beings : the deceptively delicate tooth fairies -LRB- so called because they eat bone , with a fondness for teeth in particular -RRB- ; the elfin king whose antlers grow out of his head to form a crown ; the plantlike forest god that collapses into a strangely beautiful floral mulch right under the Brooklyn Bridge ; the magnificent Angel of Death , an old crone who unfurls her wings to reveal a sparkling set of eyes -LRB- an avian variation on the creepiest creation in the acclaimed ` Pan 's Labyrinth , ' del Toro 's last movie -RRB- .

1 Then there 's the redoubtable Johann Kraus , an officious but in many ways admirable German who only exists as a vapor trail -- except when he 's bottled up in an ingeniously modified , but still splendidly archaic , deep-sea diving suit .
3 When a filmmaker can invest even a puff of smoke with so much chutzpah you know he 's on to something .
2 It 's wonderful to see del Toro let his imagination run rampant like this .
3 iReport.com : Did you see ` Hellboy II ' ?
3 Share your review

1 The plot concerns an ancient race that 's determined to wage war on humanity , but it 's secondary to del Toro 's amazing characters .

3 The Mexican director 's first Hollywood movies -LRB- ` Mimic ' and ` Blade II ' -RRB- were far less distinctive than his Spanish-language films : ` Cronos , ' ` The Devil 's Backbone ' and ` Pan 's Labyrinth . '
3 You could n't really call ` Hellboy II ' an advance on the latter -- ` Pan 's ' was nominated for six Oscars and won three -- but it 's obvious he relishes this material .
2 It 's pulpy and hammy and unashamedly lowbrow , and del Toro has the confidence and power to make it his own .
3 The film feels very free , loose and -LRB- unusually for a special-effects picture -RRB- improvisational .

3 An outsize personality such as Perlman is in his element here .
3 Even when the wisecracks fall short -- there are an awful lot of ` ass ' gags -- they are closer to the grubby , subversive impulses of the comic books than the over-hyped , market-tested , industrial-strength blockbuster adaptations Hollywood churns out .

3 It 's not for nothing that the central tension running through this movie is Red 's anarchic streak , his sometimes irresponsible need to be his own man in the Bureau for Paranormal Research and Defense -LRB- the ` X-Men ' - like institution where he works -RRB- and in his marriage .
3 Scratch the surface , and this is a film about love and loyalty , figuring out where your deepest bonds lie .

3 Highbrows may damn ` Hellboy II ' as a ` comic book movie , ' though even they would have to grant that its wonderful idiosyncrasies indicate brilliance .
3 But it 's more than that .
3 Hellboy does so much growing up over the course of these 110 minutes , we may have to call him ` Hellman ' from now on .

3 Let 's hope Universal stays the course and gives us that opportunity .
3 People as creative as del Toro and his gang need all the support we can give them .

3 ` Hellboy II : The Golden Army ' is rated PG-13 and runs 110 minutes .
3 For Entertainment Weekly 's take , click here .
