3 Rome guidebook smackdown - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- Budget Travel -RRB- -- Because no one knows a city as well as the locals do , Budget Travel magazine asked a trio of insiders to give their opinions of three recent guidebooks about Rome .

3 BT top picks

3 \* The star goes to the guidebook that the insider considers the most useful .

3 THE PANELISTS

3 Marta Falconi : Born in Rome 27 years ago , she 's now a reporter in the Associated Press bureau there .
3 Christopher P. Winner : The editor and publisher of The American magazine has lived in Rome since 1975 .
3 Sofia Celeste : Based in Rome since 2004 , she has written for The Wall Street Journal and The Boston Globe .

3 THE BOOKS

3 ` Rick Steves ' Rome 2008 ' -LRB- $ 18 -RRB-

3 Marta Falconi : A friendly approach , with first-person reports , B&W photos and hand-drawn maps .
3 Restaurants get less play than attractions , and nightlife coverage is virtually nonexistent .
3 Best for backpackers or families with little time in the city .

3 Christopher Winner : A long , generally precise monologue .
3 But basic needs like lodging and food are n't separated from tourism , and the religious coverage is nearly double that of entertainment and dining .
3 What the guide lacks in maps -- there are few -- it makes up for in clear writing .

3 Sofia Celeste : Written with the humor and street smarts of a local , and full of insider info .
3 The restaurant guide will lead you to the best little-known spots as well as the nearest McDonald 's .
3 Anyone looking for the trendiest places , however , will want to hang out with someone other than Rick Steves .

3 ` The Rough Guide to Rome , ' 2007 -LRB- $ 18 -RRB-

3 Marta Falconi : The best take of the three on the Vatican , with essential maps .
3 No ratings , though , so you ca n't tell at a glance which attractions you can ignore .
3 In general , descriptions are only a few lines , and some restaurant\/bar entries are outdated .
3 At least one closed long ago .

3 Christopher Winner : \* Time Out 's gloss meets Steves ' primitivism .
3 Listings are approachable , and there are eight maps at the back of the book .
1 Best of all , a Contexts section includes lovely excerpts about the city and astute book tips -- it 's just one more example of the book 's attention to detail .

3 Sofia Celeste : Seeking a tour that includes the setting of Tosca ?
3 This is the guidebook for you .
3 It 's thick with historical and cultural background , but lacks a simple breakdown of restaurants , hotels and clubs .
3 Definitely better for more mature travelers .

3 ` Time Out Rome , ' 2007 -LRB- $ 20 -RRB-

2 Marta Falconi : \* A hip , entertaining guide packed with the latest on bars , restaurants and trends -- even most locals would find it useful .
1 Quality photos and smooth graphics make for better reading .
2 Nothing seems to be missing ; the book even has a small glossary of pizza toppings .

3 Christopher Winner : The attitude can be jarring : An essay on art is subtitled , ` So many Virgins , so little time ... ' Please .
3 The nightlife and entertainment sections are the best around , making the book a better bible for the 20-something crowd than for anyone else .

2 Sofia Celeste : \* Goes beyond a directory of boutique hotels and day spas -LRB- though that 's here , too -RRB- with insightful articles on topics such as Pope Benedict XVI .
3 Despite Time Out 's fairly youthful reputation , bargain hunters should look elsewhere .
3 E-mail to a friend
