3 50,000 exhibits ` missing ' from Russian museums - CNN.com .
1 MOSCOW , Russia -LRB- AP -RRB- -- A sweeping government audit has revealed that up to 50,000 pieces are missing from Russia 's museums -- everything from Pre-Revolutionary medals and weapons to precious works of art -- a member of the survey team said Thursday .

1 Former Russian president Vladimir Putin ordered the survey after his government was deeply embarrassed in 2006 by hundreds of thefts from the crown jewel of Russia 's art world , St. Petersburg 's Hermitage gallery .

1 Over 1,600 museums have been inspected since then , and most of them have items missing , Interior Ministry Col. Ilya Ryasnoi told The Associated Press in a phone interview .

3 The lost items were worth a total of ` several million dollars , ' he said , adding most of the disappeared inventory was pre-Revolutionary and Soviet-era medals , weapons and clothes .

1 Precious works of art were among the missing items but separate investigations were being conducted for those , Ryasnoi said .

3 ` Yes , there have been thefts .
3 Museum staff have used their contacts to steal some of the artifacts without a trace , ' he said .
3 ` But most has simply been lost during transportation . '

3 Citing specific cases , Ryasnoi said 88 World War II medals had vanished from a museum in the Altai region , and weaponry had disappeared from a museum in the Siberian city of Novokuznetsk .
3 Almost 300 artifacts were missing from the Russian Museum of Ethnography in St. Petersburg , he said .

3 So far authorities have opened 15 criminal cases of large-scale theft , which carries a maximum prison sentence of seven years , Ryasnoi said .
3 More than 100 museum employees -- including security guards and storage workers -- have been charged with minor infractions .

1 However , Ryasnoi said the majority of the missing items had been mislaid or stolen during Soviet times , meaning many of those responsible may not face prosecution due to statutes of limitation .

3 A government spokeswoman refused immediate comment on Ryasnoi 's statements .

3 The commission is to present its findings early next year .
3 In the meantime it will continue auditing more 400 museums , including the State Historical Museum on Moscow 's Red Square , he said .

3 A spokeswoman for the State Historical Museum would not comment on the audit while it was being conducted .

3 The commission , headed by Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Zhukov , has a mandate to check around 80 million items in total , a difficult task given the state of Russian museum catalogues .

3 ` Only two million of the artifacts are even photographed , ' Ryasnoi noted .

3 Furthermore , most Russian museums do not have computerized records , he said .
3 Some items have handwritten descriptions logged in Soviet-era log books , but most just carry a single-line description , he said , making tracking them all but impossible .

3 Ryasnoi 's remarks came the same day that President Dmitry Medvedev visited an art museum in Petrozavodsk , in northwestern Russia , which had recently computerized its inventory .
3 In July 2006 , the Hermitage Museum , which includes the grandiose former Winter Palace of the czars , announced that 221 items -- including jewelry , religious icons , silverware and richly enameled objects worth about $ 5 million -- had been stolen .

3 Two paintings stolen from the Hermitage have been found recently in Moldova and are scheduled to be returned .
