1 Airline attacks ` idiot , lunatic ' bloggers - CNN.com .
1 LONDON , England -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Ryanair attacked ` idiot ' and ` lunatic ' bloggers Wednesday after a customer highlighted what he said were flaws in the budget airline 's Web site .

1 Dublin-based Web developer Jason Roe was booking plane tickets online when he discovered what he thought was a glitch that allowed him to book free Ryanair tickets .

3 He duly posted details of the ` glitch ' on his blog as well as a message on Twitter .
3 Soon people were trying to replicate what he had done with little success , and he later confirmed that he was unable to book the tickets without paying .

1 But among responses on his Web site were three purporting to be from Ryanair staff .
2 One read : ` You 're an idiot and a liar !!
3 fact is !
2 you 've opened one session then another and requested a page meant for a different session , you are so stupid you dont even know how you did it ! '

3 Another said : ` Website is not perfect , Life is not perfect ... If you would work in your pathetic life on a such big project in a such busy environment with so little resources , you would know that the most important is to have usual user behavior scenarios working rather than spending time on improbable and harmless things . '

2 Roe said he later traced the IP addresses of the postings to the airline 's headquarters in Dublin , something Ryanair later confirmed to CNN .

1 ` Ryanair can confirm that a Ryanair staff member did engage in a blog discussion , ' said the airline 's spokesman Stephen McNamara .
2 ` It is Ryanair policy not to waste time and energy in corresponding with idiot bloggers and Ryanair can confirm that it wo n't be happening again .
2 Lunatic bloggers can have the blog sphere all to themselves as our people are far too busy driving down the cost of air travel . '

3 Roe told CNN he was disappointed with Ryanair 's response .
2 ` I was hoping the corporate response was n't in line with the staff members , whose comments I found offensive .
3 This was n't a big issue and was really just a small problem ; they could have said they were working on it and they over-reacted . '

3 ` You can only imagine how many customers they could lose by treating them like this , ' he added .

3 A spokesman for ABTA , which represents tour operators and travel agents , said the comments by Ryanair came as no surprise .
3 ` They treat their customers with contempt .
3 We know that Ryanair does n't put any store on customer relations , ' said Frances Tuke .

3 ` This is the way Ryanair conducts its business .
3 Their clear goal is to provide cheap flights but we do n't believe this is the way to provide customer satisfaction .
3 Our members do n't do this -- their customers expect a high level of service . '
