2 Some food from Mexico to face testing - CNN.com .
1 WASHINGTON -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Starting Monday , health inspectors will halt and check the shipment of ingredients common to Mexican cuisine from Mexico to the United States , sources familiar with the salmonella poisoning investigation said .

1 The inquiry , which initially focused solely on tomatoes , has expanded to include cilantro , jalape o peppers , Serrano peppers , scallions and bulb onions , said Tommy Thompson , former secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services , who said he has been informed of the plan .

1 Thompson said the plan involves intercepting food samples at the border and sending them to laboratories to examine them for possible salmonella or E. coli .

3 A former director of the Food and Drug Administration 's import operations said the expanded search raises a number of questions .

3 ` Where 's the contaminated product ? ' asked Carl Nielsen .
3 ` How would you know ?
3 And where along the supply chain did it happen ?
3 Was it at the retail level ?
3 Is somebody doing something to expose the product at the retailer ?
3 Is it at the wholesale ?
3 Is it at the grower ?
3 Is it at the processor ?
3 Is it in transport ?
3 Where is it ?
3 They do n't know . '

3 The source of the outbreak of Salmonella Saintpaul remains unknown , but it has already had far-reaching implications .

1 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported Thursday that 943 people in 40 states , the District of Columbia , and Canada have become ill. .
3 Map : Which states are affected ?

3 The person in the Canadian case became ill in Ontario on the day he returned from the United States , the CDC said .

3 The rare form of bacteria also has cut about $ 450 million of tomato growers ' income , said Thompson .

3 ` You do n't even take into consideration the thousands of people that have been sick , and how much it 's cost in drugs , loss of time and mental anguish for people who are sick , ' Nielsen said .

3 Last year during the same period , U.S. health authorities identified three people infected with the same strain .
