2 Actress says she misspoke on China - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Actress Sharon Stone said in a statement Saturday that she ` could not be more regretful ' of her comments this month regarding the earthquake in China , in which she suggested that the quake was an act of ` karma . '

2 ` Yes , I misspoke , ' said the statement released by Stone 's publicist and entitled ` In my own words by Sharon Stone . '

3 ` I could not be more regretful of that mistake .
3 It was unintentional .
3 I apologize .
3 Those words were never meant to be hurtful to anyone , ' Stone said .
1 ` They were an accident of my distraction and a product of news sensationalism . '

1 Stone said Saturday that she was issuing the statement to set the record straight about the comments she made to a reporter at the Cannes Film Festival .

3 The statement drew fire from citizens and government officials .

3 ` There have been numerous reports about what I said in Cannes .
2 I would like to set the record straight about what I feel in my heart and end all of the understandings , ' she said .

3 ` They 're not being nice to the Dalai Lama , who is a friend of mine , ' Stone said on camera at the time , discussing the Chinese .
2 ` And then all of this earthquake and all this happened and I thought , is that karma ?
3 When you 're not nice , that bad things happen to you ? '

3 Qin Gang , spokesman for China 's Foreign Ministry , said Stone ` should do more to promote understanding and friendship between nations . '

3 French fashion house Christian Dior said it would drop Stone from its advertisements in China after her May 22 remarks .

3 ` We absolutely disagree with her hasty comments , and we are also deeply sorry about them , ' Dior said in a statement from its Shanghai , China , headquarters .

3 But Stone said she was ` deeply saddened by the pain that this whole situation has caused the victims of the devastating earthquake in China . '

3 As of Friday , the death toll from the May 12 magnitude-7 .9 quake stood at 68,858 , with another 18,618 missing .
