1 Sierra Leone rebel leaders found guilty - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Three former leaders of Sierra Leone 's brutal Revolutionary United Front guerrilla movement were found guilty Wednesday of crimes against humanity including murder , rape , sexual slavery and forced marriages , the Special Court for Sierra Leone announced .

1 The charges stemmed from a civil war in the diamond-rich West African nation that lasted more than 10 years and stood out for its viciousness , even on a continent that has suffered many vicious conflicts .

1 It led to tens of thousands of deaths and more than 2 million people fleeing their homes in the country of 6 million .

1 The RUF rebels were known for hacking off civilians ' hands and feet during the war , which lasted from March 1991 until January 2002 .

1 Former RUF ` interim leader ' Issa Hassan Sesay , former RUF commander Morris Kallon and former RUF chief of security Augustine Gbao each faced 18 counts of war crimes , crimes against humanity , attacking U.N. peacekeepers , and recruiting and using child soldiers .

2 Sesay and Kallon each were found guilty on 16 counts , while Gbao was found guilty on 14 , the court announced .

2 They were charged with ` extermination , murder , rape , sexual slavery , forced marriages and physical violence ' as well as enslaving civilians , mutilating people , and pillaging .

3 They were convicted on all counts except two specifically related to the kidnapping of international peacekeepers in May 2000 .

3 Gbao was also found not guilty of two other charges related to an attack on peacekeepers , although Sesay and Kallon were convicted of those crimes .

1 Human Rights Watch senior Africa researcher Corinne Dufka called the verdict ` very significant . '

2 ` The RUF were renowned for leading one of the most brutal rebel movements in modern days .
2 Everyone knows about the signature atrocity of limb amputation , but there was also horrific sexual violence , abductions , use of child soldiers , and forced marriages , ' she told CNN by phone from Senegal in West Africa .

3 She lived Sierra Leone from 1999 to 2004 , documenting atrocities .
3 ` It was difficult to find someone who had n't been a victim of or a witness to a war crime , ' she said .

1 Amnesty International also welcomed the convictions , but said much more needs to be done to bring hundreds of other perpetrators to justice .

2 The group called it a ` positive , but still insufficient , step in the fight against impunity ' in the country , and said ` many others -- numbering perhaps in the several hundreds -- must be investigated in Sierra Leone . '

3 Eight people have now been convicted of war crimes connected with the conflict -- some on the rebel 's side and some on the government 's .

3 The Special Court 's mandate is to try only ` those who bear greatest responsibility for atrocities committed in Sierra Leone . '

3 Sesay , Kallon and Gbao had pleaded not guilty on all counts in a trial that lasted nearly five years .

3 They are due to be sentenced within a month .

3 The Special Court can not impose the death penalty .

3 The RUF seized most of Sierra Leone from the government and fought international and African peacekeepers .
3 The capital , Freetown , was retaken by international forces in 2000 .

3 The trial of the three former leaders was the last of three to be held at the Special Court , a unique joint project of Sierra Leone and the United Nations .

3 Former Liberian President Charles Taylor is on trial separately at an international court in The Hague for his role in the conflict .
3 The prosecution rested in the Taylor case last month after a year of presenting its arguments .

3 The Leonardo DiCaprio movie ` Blood Diamond ' is set in Sierra Leone during the civil war .
3 Despite the country 's diamond wealth , 70 percent of the population lives below the poverty line .

3 In the days of the slave trade , the West African country was the departure point for thousands of captives bound for the Americas .
3 Freetown was founded in 1787 as a home for repatriated former slaves .
