2 Wind power helps ski resort during recession - CNN.com .
3 HANCOCK , Massachusetts -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Imagine climbing 276 steps to change a light bulb .
3 That 's all in a day 's work for Rian Harford .

3 He 's a mountain operations mechanic at Jiminy Peak Mountain Resort .
3 And that light bulb is n't just a regular light bulb .
3 It belongs inside an air-traffic warning light that sits 253 feet high upon a wind turbine .

1 Jiminy Peak , in Hancock , Massachusetts , touts itself as the first ski resort in North America to feature such a structure .

3 The idea to build the turbine came to company president and CEO Brian Fairbank after years of struggling with the astronomical cost of making snow .

3 ` Somebody suggested we take advantage of the wind .
3 You use the energy the most in the winter , ' Fairbank said .
3 ` That 's when the wind blows the most . '

3 But such a simple concept was n't so easy to execute .
3 It took more than three years to take the idea from conception to fruition .

3 Before even placing an order for a turbine , the resort had to study everything from Federal Aviation Administration regulations to the structure 's effect on airplanes , birds and endangered species .

3 Once everything fell into place , Jiminy Peak was tasked to get 500 tons of parts and equipment up the mountain , via a two-mile-long gravel road .

3 ` Once we got everything to the top of mountain , putting it together only took a couple days , but getting it up there was the biggest challenge , ' Fairbank said .

3 In fall 2007 , the $ 4 million project was complete .
3 The turbine is nicknamed Zephyr , after the Greek god of the west wind .
3 And Zephyr is n't afraid to make its presence known .

3 The tower is more than 250 feet tall .
3 The hub adds 10 feet , and the blades extend an additional 123 feet , creating a 386-foot green machine .

1 Zephyr works its magic to produce about a third of Jiminy Peak 's electric needs , shaving $ 450,000 a year from the resort 's energy bill .
1 To put that in perspective , the energy from the turbine is enough to power more than 600 homes .

3 And Zephyr 's power does n't stop there .
3 It has also drawn the interest of many visitors .
3 Louise Pinho did her homework to find out how effective the wind turbine really is .

3 ` When you read about what it 's able to do for the resort , that it can take up to 33 percent off of their bills , then you realize that there is more of a need for this , ' Pinho said .
3 ` With what 's going on right now , we have to have some alternatives to our energy sources that we have available to us . '

3 But Pinho is n't blind to Zephyr 's visual and environmental drawbacks .
2 Studies show that wind turbines destroy the habitat that many animals live in .
1 Bats , which play a large role in consuming insects and pests , are an example of a species that 's most affected .

3 According to Thomas Kunz , a biology professor at Boston University , these bats are n't necessarily being struck by the blades of a wind turbine .
2 Their bodies are affected by a low-pressure system caused when the blades move through the air .

2 ` They die from hemorrhaging , ' Kunz says .
1 In areas close to wind turbines , '80 percent of the bats that we know about today are killed in that fashion . '

2 Kunz says that specifically , migrating bats seem to be more affected , mainly during their fall migration , which lasts from late summer to early autumn .

3 At Jiminy Peak Mountain Resort , the turbine produces electricity year round , but more than 60 percent of its output takes place in the winter months .

3 Regardless , Fairbank is no stranger to negative feedback .
3 Some people in the community did n't want the turbine to obstruct their view of the mountains .

3 But he says that only a small part of the community complains .
3 In fact , some neighbors reap Zephyr 's benefit .
3 In the summer , when the resort 's demands are lower , Zephyr 's electricity trickles downhill to power local homes and businesses .

3 ` So all those communities become green when we 're not using the power , ' Fairbank said .

3 And when it comes to being green , this Massachusetts resort is n't new to the game .
3 Since 1985 , the company has implemented various environmentally friendly practices .
3 From recycling motor oil to heat lodges to installing waterless urinals , Fairbank says , the business is always looking for ways to conserve .

3 And that may be paying off .
3 In a time when many businesses are closing their doors , Fairbank said , ` we 're 12 percent ahead of our best year ever . '
