3 The Ski Train : Colorado 's quiet treasure - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Many skiers who visit Colorado prefer the slopes of Aspen , Vail or Breckenridge .
3 But there 's a cool little day trip from Denver that often gets overlooked by out-of-towners .

1 The Ski Train is a 68-year-old local favorite that shuttles about 750 people between Denver and Winter Park .
3 It runs on weekend days -- leaving Denver 's Union Station at 7:15 a.m. -- and begins the return leg nine hours later .

3 The 56-mile trip takes about two hours each way , and many riders say it 's worth the cost to avoid the traffic hassles of the oft-congested I-70 .

3 A roundtrip ticket costs between $ 49 and $ 85 .
3 There are additional expenses , such as parking at the train station in Denver and lift tickets for skiers .
3 If someone chooses to shop instead of ski , a free shuttle into Winter Park is available .

1 Train riders love the trip route , which winds through the Rockies and climbs to 9,000 feet .
1 It also travels through almost 30 tunnels , including the 6.2-mile Moffat Tunnel , which passes underneath the Continental Divide .

1 ` The train ride up there is spectacular .
3 You see wonderful vistas as you leave Denver through the northern plains and into the mountains , ' Kristal Kraft , a real estate agent in Denver , says .
2 ` And once you get through the Moffat Tunnel , you 're right there at Winter Park . '

3 Kraft says she enjoyed her maiden voyage on the train , which came courtesy of a local home builder that bought group tickets in one of the club cars .

3 ` I loved the convenience -LRB- of the train -RRB- , ' she says .
3 ` We relaxed , talked , socialized .
3 And when you get off the train , you are right there at the slopes . '

3 According to skitrain.com , three additional cars are available for charter and one for company retreats .
3 The Web site lists the price for the presentation car at $ 5,000 for a winter trip .
3 The site says the current train cars were purchased after Ansco Investment Company bought the Ski Train in 1988 .

3 Kraft says the cars are comfortably heated and there is ample room to move around .
3 Kraft , an amateur photography buff , enjoyed switching from window to window , side to side , to take pictures .

3 There is one occasional hitch to riding the train .
3 It shares the track with the Union Pacific Railroad and at times has to stop or pullover to make way for a freight train or Amtrak .
3 And there are instances where another train has an accident .

3 One time a coal train derailed in a tunnel and the Union Pacific officials told the Ski Train operators it would take two days to clear the tracks , says Ski Train media relations director Jim Bain .

3 They called the passengers together in a cafeteria in Winter Park and advised them to call friends and family to come pick them up .
3 The company also arranged for a few buses to come gather the remaining passengers and Bain says they were all headed back to Denver by 8:30 p.m. It was a worst-case scenario , he says , and it only happened once .
3 There are occasional delays of a few hours .

3 The bad news is you 're delayed ; the good news is you 're on a full service train with food service and restrooms .
3 And there 's the ability to find a beverage .

3 One reviewer on the Web site yelp.com said there 's another bonus to the train .

3 ` What 's great is that once you get back into Denver you can hit Wynkoop brewery or any other bars around there to keep the party rolling , ' Ramon G. wrote .
