2 Easier to mess up love life on social networks - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Shayna Hefner never expected MySpace to turn her life upside down .

3 When she joined the social network years ago , she was n't sure what to do with it .
3 One night , she and her cousin started seeking out people from Hefner 's past : old friends from high school , old co-workers , even ex-boyfriends .

3 At the same time , Hefner 's life and marriage began to fray at the edges .
3 She had just given birth and recently lost her mother to illness .
3 She began using MySpace 's blogging feature to express herself and seek support .

3 ` Suddenly , I was part of a group of people who were all going through the same thing as me .
3 They were moms and wives , and they were doing all these really exciting things , and I had come to realize that I kind of wanted more from my life .
3 The blogging had really drawn people to me .
3 I wrote about the frustration I was having with my husband and my marriage , and so many people wrote back to support me and make me feel better , ' she said .

3 About the same time , an old friend from high school , 'D ' -LRB- she 's requested that we do n't use his name -RRB- popped into Hefner 's online life and started lavishing attention on her .
3 They eventually began to talk on the phone .
3 He would call her from Texas for advice on how to deal with his divorce and kids .

3 When D came to California for a vacation with his children , they made plans to see one another .

3 Eventually , they became romantically involved .
3 Even though Hefner was still married , she became deeply committed to D -- so much that it eventually pushed her husband to go forward with their divorce .

3 A few months later , she and D have broken up .
3 But Hefner 's divorce moves forward , and she continues to blog about her relationship with D and her husband .

1 More than one-third -LRB- 35 percent -RRB- of U.S. adult Internet users have a profile on a social networking site , according to the Pew Internet & American Life Project 's daily tracking survey of 2,251 adults .

1 As more people join social networks like MySpace and Facebook , getting back in touch with old friends and lovers is becoming increasingly easy .

3 A search on both networks turns up a handful of groups dedicated to lost loves and first loves .
2 Although neither site formally tracks the number of groups dedicated to the topic , MySpace spokeswoman Jamie Schumacher says it 's common for users to meet on the site and fall in love and end up together .

3 ` Hope Winters ' had a different social networking experience .
3 The former lawyer who blogs under the pen name Winters on ` Here 's the Thing DC ' recently had a Facebook encounter with an old crush .
3 The two of them had been in student government together in college and always had an attraction but never did anything about it .

3 After six months of e-mailing almost daily and sharing her unposted work with him , her college crush removed her as a friend on the social network , blocking her from seeing his profile and cutting off communication for what she says is no apparent reason .
3 She was upset , but she 's taking it in stride .

3 ` The thing is , online they can be anything they want .
3 You e-mail a lot and talk about your lives effortlessly , since you already knew them back then , and you really feel a connection .
3 But it 's not real , ' she said .

3 Many experts argue that it 's this aspect of social networking that is dangerous to real-world relationships .
3 People often present whatever image they deem appropriate on the Internet , and it 's easy to keep e-mail communications private .

3 B.J. Fogg , director of the Persuasive Tech Lab at Stanford University and editor of a book called ` The Psychology of Facebook , ' has been studying the social networking phenomenon for years .

3 He argues that what we are doing on Facebook and other social networking sites is a lot like ` primate grooming . '
3 We are building ` social solidarity ' by publicly flirting and socializing online .

3 ` I think you get out of Facebook what you want to get out of Facebook .
3 It 's like a Rorschach Test .
1 If you want to go onto Facebook to look for someone else to be with or look for a support system to leave your current relationship , then you will find that , ' he said .

2 Many people try to reunite online because it 's so easy , says Nancy Kalish , a professor of psychology at Cal State Sacramento and author of the book ` Lost & Found Lovers : Facts and Fantasies of Rekindled Romance . '

3 Kalish says most people go looking for lost loves , initially , out of curiosity .

3 First loves in particular are most often sought out online , she says , and they pose the most danger to real-world relationships for two reasons : biological and emotional .
3 First , she says , when two people meet in the adolescent years -LRB- between 16 and 22 -RRB- , they start to form their identity together and break away from family .
3 In those formative years , ` you define what love is and what you want from a partner , and when you lose that , you lose that piece of yourself . '

3 This combines with the hormones that are encoding in your brain at that age as 'em otive memory ' and creates a biological imprint of that person .

3 On top of all this chemistry , the adolescent years are typically the years when humans start to reach their reproductive maturity and look for biologically compatible mates .
3 Kalish argues that this in turn causes problems because people are delaying marriage .
3 She says , ` we are so far away from marrying our first love because people are waiting until later in life to settle down .
3 When they do settle down , oftentimes , the chemistry just is n't the same . '
3 iReport.com : How are social networks affecting your personal life ?

3 Her advice to the social networking crowd is simple : ` It 's not enough to have a good marriage .
1 My rule is , if you are married or in a serious relationship , you are not available .
1 Do n't contact your lost love .
3 Understand that these are old feelings and that who your lost love was years ago is not who they are today . '

3 Some spouses agree .
3 In the Pew survey , of the adults who had removed their profile from a social networking site , 3 percent said they did it because their spouse or partner wanted it removed .

3 Now moving forward on her divorce , Hefner says she does n't have any regrets about her MySpace experience .

3 ` I did n't even understand how it worked when I started my account .
3 When I actually started meeting people , I realized it was a way for me to grow , and I hoped my husband would grow with me .
3 Many of my friends have a theory , though .
3 We do n't think MySpace caused our marriages to fail .
3 Rather , something lacking in those marriages made us look to MySpace in a way we might not have if we were truly happy . '
