1 Pirates release ship carrying tanks , other arms - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Somali pirates released a Ukrainian ship Thursday carrying tanks , ammunition and crew after receiving a ransom of $ 3.2 million , a spokesman for the ship 's owner said .

3 Mikhail Voitenko told CNN all the pirates had left the ship Thursday night , and a man who identified himself as one of the pirates who was involved in the hijacking also confirmed the pirates were no longer on the vessel .

3 Voitenko said his information was confirmed by the MV Faina 's owner , Vadim Alperin , who authorized him to make a statement .

1 The pirates seized the ship in neutral waters near Kenya and Somalia in September .
3 It had been headed to the Kenyan port of Mombasa after departing from Nikolayev , Ukraine , and was hijacked not far from its destination .

1 The U.S. Navy began monitoring the situation soon after the vessel was captured because of concerns about the dangers that the weapons on board could pose .

3 In a letter posted on the ` Marine Bulletin ' Web site , which is edited by Voitenko , Alperin said he , his representatives in various countries , and Ukrainian special services had been involved in ` extremely tough ' negotiations with the pirates .

3 ` The release would 've been impossible without the assistance from the Ukrainian government , ' Alperin wrote .

3 However , Alperin wrote , the government did not contribute to the ransom .
3 ` It rendered things that are much more valuable than money .
3 It helped , thank God , with ... the knowledge , experience and talent of its intelligence officers , ' he wrote .

3 Soon after the pirates left on Thursday night , U.S. sailors boarded the Faina to administer first aid , technical assistance and food and water to the crew , Voitenko said .

3 The American Forces Press Service reported none of the 20-member crew had been harmed .

3 On Friday , the ship will be refueled , and will head toward Mombasa under the escort of the U.S. Navy , Voitenko said .

1 After the ship was freed , the Navy released a photograph of the purported ransom being air-dropped onto the vessel .

2 ` All indications we have are that ransom was indeed paid regarding the Faina .
1 Our ships continue to wait on station to monitor the situation in the vicinity of the Faina vessel , ' said Nathan Christensen , a spokesman for U.S. Naval Forces Central Command .

3 It was not immediately clear whether all the weapons the ship was carrying remained on board .

3 Russian state-run television reported the pirates took an unknown number of grenade launchers as well as other ammunition with them , but CNN could not independently confirm the report .

1 The pirates seized the Ukrainian vessel on September 25 , 2008 .
2 The Belize-flagged ship had been sailing to Kenya carrying a cargo of military hardware , including about 30 tanks , spare parts and armor .
3 The crew comprised 17 Ukrainians , two Russians and one citizen of Latvia .

3 The captain , a Russian citizen , died soon after the ship was seized .
