1 Extremists plotted attacks across Europe , Spanish paper says - CNN.com .
2 MADRID , Spain -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Suspected Islamic extremists arrested last week in Barcelona were planning al Qaeda-style attacks in Spain , Germany , France , Britain and Portugal , according to an informant who ` infiltrated ' the group , Spain 's El Pais newspaper reports .

3 ` If we attack the metro -LRB- subway system in Barcelona -RRB- , the emergency services ca n't get there , ' one of the suspected suicide bombers told the informant , El Pais reported on Saturday .
1 ` Our preference is public transport , especially the metro . '

1 El Pais reported that it had access to the informant 's testimony to Spanish officials .

3 CNN has confirmed that authorities have given high importance to an informant 's testimony .

1 The judge who ordered 10 suspects held for allegedly plotting a suicide attack in Barcelona , cited in his rulings the testimony of an informant .
3 CNN has viewed the rulings .

2 Spain 's Interior Minister last Friday said an informant warned of a planned suicide attack against Barcelona 's metro on the weekend of January 18 to 20 .
3 But he added that , for now , ` there is only the testimony of an informant ' regarding the timing .

1 The informant told authorities the cell comprised six suicide bombers , including himself , El Pais reported on Saturday .

3 Spain 's attorney general , Candido Conde-Pumpido , said last week that the cell could have contained six suicide bombers , two explosives experts and two ideologues .

3 Judge Ismael Moreno , in rulings last Wednesday , wrote that the informant had named three suspected suicide bombers and an explosives expert , all of whom had traveled from Pakistan to Barcelona since last summer .
3 The judge ordered these four men held , out the total of 10 jailed suspects who are from South Asia .

3 They include nine Pakistani nationals and a man from India , who is Muslim .

3 A court-appointed translator told CNN that all 10 suspects testified during their arraignments that they were innocent .

2 The cell planned three attacks in Spain , one in Germany and others in France , Britain and Portugal , according to the informant , El Pais reported .

3 On Sunday , another El Pais story added that the ` wave of attacks ' was to have been carried out by the Barcelona group and other extremist Pakistani cells were to attack elsewhere in Europe .

3 The informant told authorities about potential links between the Barcelona group and suspected extremists in other countries , the interior minister said Friday .

3 The informant had traveled by train from France to Barcelona on January 16 , a few days before police made arrests in Barcelona , El Pais reported Saturday .
3 A day earlier , the newspaper reported that the informant worked for French intelligence .

3 Al Qaeda was planning to take responsibility for the first attack in Barcelona through Baitullah Mehsud , a Taliban commander whom the Pakistani government blames for last month 's assassination of opposition leader Benazir Bhutto , El Pais reported .

3 ` Only the leadership of the organization knows what requests the emir -LRB- Baitullah -RRB- will make after the first attack , but if they are not carried out , there will be a second attack in Spain , and a third , ' a cell leader told the informant , El Pais reported .
3 ` And then in Germany , France , Portugal and the United Kingdom .
3 There are many people prepared there . '

3 In Barcelona , two pairs of suicide bombers were to attack in separate metro stations , the paper said , citing the informant 's testimony .
3 One of the cell leaders said the bombs were supposed to be hidden in backpacks or bags and that other cell members were to detonate them by remote control , the paper added .

3 Two other pairs of suicide bombers were to strike elsewhere in Spain , while another suicide bomber was to attack in Germany , although the informant said he did not know where or when those attacks were to occur , El Pais reported .

3 Three other terrorists were assigned to attack in France and two in Portugal , El Pais reported , although it did not mention locations or times for those attacks either .

3 Civil Guards initially detained 14 people in Barcelona , but released two before arraignments last Wednesday .
2 The judge then released two more , leaving 10 in jail for further investigation .
3 It was not immediately known if the alleged informant may have been among those arrested and released .

3 ` This cell was preparing to attack , ' Interior Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba said Friday in an interview with Spanish radio network SER .
3 ` It 's clear they were going to try , whether last weekend -LRB- January 18 to 20 -RRB- or within 15 days . '

3 But he said police have not found explosives ` in sufficient quantity ' to have carried out the assault .

3 ` We have found a modest quantity of explosives , ' Rubalcaba said , adding that they may have been intended for use in training the suspects .

3 The judge in his rulings wrote that the group ` had achieved human operational capacity and were very close to achieving full technical capacity with explosives , with the aim of using those explosives for a jihadi terrorist attack . '

3 Rubalcaba said that , for any such suspected terrorist cell , ` the time from getting explosives to carrying out the attack can be very short . '

3 The judge wrote that police had found nitrocellulose and mechanical and electrical elements that could have been used to make one or more bombs .

3 More than 300 suspected Islamic extremists have been arrested in Spain since the Madrid train bombings killed 191 people and wounded more than 1,800 on March 11 , 2004 , Rubalcaba said .

3 Last October , more than a dozen Islamic extremists were convicted in Madrid for their roles in the train bombings .

3 The 2004 bombings came just three days before general elections , in which Socialist Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero won an upset victory .

3 The latest arrests in Barcelona come less than two months before the next general elections , to be held March 9 , when Zapatero seeks re-election .

3 Spain remains on ` permanent alert ' against Islamic terrorism .
3 Al Qaeda communiques regularly make specific references to Spain .
