2 Bank 's performance was too good to be true , analyst says - CNN.com .
1 MIAMI , Florida -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- A financial analyst who studied public documents about Stanford International Bank for a friend who was considering investing in it said Thursday that it took only a cursory look to determine something was wrong .

3 ` It was kind of shocking , but then I began to think about who would actually be looking at this and who should be looking at this , ' Alex Dalmady told CNN .
3 ` And I came to realize that there were n't many people who had to look at this . '

3 U.S. regulators have accused the founder of the Antigua-based bank , Allen Stanford , of orchestrating a $ 9.2 billion investment fraud scheme .

1 Regulators have already taken control of the bank and financial institutions run by Stanford , and Venezuela 's government has frozen bank accounts belonging to board members of his Bank Venezuela .

3 ` It 's a bank that caters only to individuals , so there is no bank due diligence , ' Dalmady said .
3 ` The regulators were perhaps slacking off a bit at the job , and that would be the Antiguans . '

3 Dalmady said he tried to blow the whistle before any of that happened , in an article called ` Duck Tales , ' published in the January issue of VenEconomy Monthly .

2 ` I wrote an article for people to read and understand that there is a number of things in these numbers and in the organization that are not right and should be looked at , ' he said .
3 ` My conclusion : if it looks like a duck and it walks like a duck and it quacks like a duck , it 's a duck . '

3 The article listed warning signs common to financial scams : they are too good to be true ; they can do what no one else can ; there are few people overseeing everything ; there are few incentives for whistleblowers to come forward .

1 Stanford International Bank fit each one , Dalmady wrote : &#8226; It offered rates of return on certificates of deposit at 7.5 percent , when U.S. banks were offering 4 to 5 percent .

1 &#8226; Its deposits had grown from $ 624 million in 1999 to more than $ 8.4 billion by the end of 2008 , an astonishing compound growth rate of 34 percent .

3 &#8226; Only 75 people worked for the bank on the island , and its investments were overseen by far fewer .

3 &#8226; And it reported an 11.4 percent return on its portfolio for 2007 , when the Standard and Poors 500 index returned 3.8 percent .

3 ` This could seem quite ` normal ' for someone who is not in the investment world , but these performance figures are very , very good ... on the ` limit of the credible universe , ' ' Dalmady wrote .

3 And what about the stockholders ?
3 ` There is only one , ' Dalmady said .
3 ` He has the title of chairman of the board and does n't appear to have management responsibilities at the bank . '

3 Though the bank was audited , its auditor had not changed in a decade , he said .
3 And local regulators in Antigua had little incentive to look closely at the bank 's books , he added : ` If the bank goes elsewhere , who is going to build schools and maintain the roads and gardens ? '

1 Asked Thursday why he chose to blow the whistle , Dalmady said , ` I would n't feel good with myself if I had n't . '

3 He said that since his article was published , he has gotten calls from desperate-sounding people who invested with the bank .

3 ` They do n't know if their money is safe , and you feel for them , because it 's not like they 're stupid or even greedy or anything . '

3 Last Thursday , the FBI announced federal agents had located Stanford in Fredericksburg , Virginia , and served him with papers accusing him and three of his companies of fraud .
3 He was not taken into custody , and no criminal charges were filed against him .

1 A day later , Antiguan and Barbudan regulators took control of Stanford 's financial institutions on the twin-island nation .

3 The chief investment officer of Stanford Financial Group was arrested Thursday on a criminal complaint that charged her with criminal obstruction , the Justice Department said .

3 Laura Pendergest-Holt is to appear Friday before U.S. Magistrate Mary Milloy at the federal courthouse in Houston , Texas .
3 Efforts by CNN to reach Stanford or his representatives have not been successful .
