3 A primer on stem cells - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- The Food and Drug Administration has approved the first human clinical trial of embryonic stem cell therapy .
1 The stem cells used for this study came from the 60 existing stem cell lines approved in August 2001 by the Bush administration .
3 Before that time , federal research dollars were not allowed to be used for stem cell research .

1 To date , only 21 of these lines have proved useful to researchers .

3 What are stem cells ?

1 Embryonic stem cells have the potential to turn into any organ or tissue cell in the body .

3 Stem cells have this ability for a very short time .
3 Just a few days before the embryo would implant , it starts to develop into specific cells that will turn into skin or eyes or other parts of a developing fetus .

3 How do scientists get stem cells ?

3 At this point , researchers use embryos that have been created in fertility clinics by taking an egg , which is fertilized with a sperm in a petri dish .
3 Stem cells are not removed from embryos that have been conceived naturally .
3 The embryos used for research are not intended for making a baby , and researchers need to get consent from the parents to use their fertilized eggs for their studies .

3 When the embryo is 4 or 5 days old , scientists extract the stem cells and put them in a petri dish .
3 With the removal of these stem cells -- of which there may be about 30 -- the embryo is destroyed .
3 This is why some people oppose this type of research .

3 What is a ` stem cell line ' ?

3 When human embryonic stem cells are placed in a petri dish , they are surrounded by a solution or ` medium ' that allows the cells to multiply while still having the potential to turn into any type of body cell .
3 According to the National Institutes of Health , after six months of culturing , these original 30 cells can turn into millions of embryonic stem cells .
3 These millions of stem cells are called a ` stem cell line . '
3 Researchers will continue to monitor these cells to ensure that their properties have n't changed .

3 Where are these stem cell lines kept ?

2 All of the 21 remaining federally approved stem cell lines are kept at the National Stem Cell Bank at WiCell Research Institute in Madison , Wisconsin .

3 The last two approved lines were deposited in this stem bank January 12 .
3 For a fee , researchers can apply for access to use stem cells for their research .
