3 Struggling filmmakers do what they have to do - CNN.com .
3 LOS ANGELES , California -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Carsten Kurpanek bought a car .
3 Then he and his girlfriend packed up their things and drove more than 2,000 miles to Los Angeles .

3 ` We had four suitcases and an old TV and nothing else , ' he said with a laugh .

3 A year and a half later , it seems funny .
3 But when the couple first arrived , not having a job or a place to live was n't so amusing .

2 As the Oscars draw celebrities and million-dollar producers to Hollywood this week , newcomers to the entertainment industry are still struggling to make it big .
1 Kurpanek is an aspiring filmmaker , one of many who traveled west after college in hopes of landing a job .
3 His girlfriend , Courtney Hawkins , is an actress looking to the same .

2 There are no firm statistics on the number of graduates who follow that path to Los Angeles , said Joe Misiewicz , department chair for the telecommunications program at Ball State University in Indiana .
3 But he guesses 10 to 12 of his seniors move to the showbiz capital every year .

3 Hawkins found her first paycheck as a waitress .
3 After two weeks of crashing at a friend 's place , she and Kurpanek found an apartment they could rent even with no credit history and minimal employment .
3 A month later , Kurpanek started work as an unpaid intern at a reality TV company named AlphaDog .
3 Kurpanek was a productive filmmaker during his time at Ball State , but his work counted for nothing in the big city .

3 ` Your resume coming from school is blank -- even if you had 5,000 films on there , ' Kurpanek said .
3 ` Everybody you meet in the industry has worked for free in the industry . '

3 Phil McLaughlin can attest to that .
3 After graduating from Indiana University in August 2007 , he attached a U-Haul trailer to his car and started across the country .

3 ` To be honest , I 'm surprised my car made it , ' McLaughlin said .
3 ` By the time we hit the desert I had the heat on high with the windows down , watching the engine temp kiss the red the entire way . '

3 McLaughlin 's move coincided with the front end of the writers ' strike , so he remained in unpaid internships and a tiny apartment for a while , sleeping on a mattress when he could n't afford a bed frame .

3 ` I do n't know the square footage , but figuring it out would just be depressing , ' he said .
3 ` For a while it definitely was a stretch to pay bills .
3 Finding work was not the easiest thing for me .
3 We lived off of summer savings and my girlfriend 's job at a department store . '

3 Perhaps the biggest challenge for those trying to break into the industry is the seasonal nature of the work , Misiewicz said .
3 Most end up freelancing or working on television shows that do n't tape during the holidays or the summer .

3 ` We try to tell -LRB- our graduates -RRB- , you know what , you do what you have to do .
3 Work at Target , at -LRB- the supermarket chain -RRB- Meijers , etc. , ' he said .
3 ` And just enjoy the weather . '

3 The department encourages its students to dream big while equipping them with the knowledge of what they 're getting in to .
3 Indiana University did the same for McLaughlin .
3 A seminar his senior year taught him that 90 percent of the entertainment industry is in Hollywood -- and to make it , you just have to take that chance .

3 Bobby Milly , program director for computer animation at the Los Angeles Film School , said more students come out each year from the East Coast because Hollywood is , quite literally , in the school 's backyard .

3 ` Especially with films and video games , the market is here .
3 There are 30 video game companies out here alone , ' Milly said .
3 ` The benefit is that finding another job if you lose one without relocating is a much better possibility . '

3 More than 30 percent of the school 's students are from out of state , public relations spokesman Antoine Ibrahim said .
3 And based on the volume of calls the housing department gets , a lot are moving to the area and becoming full-time residents , he said .

3 ` I decided to move out to LA because it was obvious this is where the opportunity is , ' McLaughlin said .
3 ` There 's easily 30 of us from my graduating class in my program that moved out here at the same time . '

3 Having a support system helps , McLaughlin said .
2 He and his friends use their production backgrounds to distribute online videos of their sketch comedy group Moon County .
3 Many in the group have day jobs , but they each use their skills -- either as actors , writers or in production -- in hopes of getting noticed and padding their resume reels .

3 ` I 'm drawn to this line of work because of the inherent collaborative and creative energy , so ultimately I 'd love to be in a position where I 'm making a living working with friends , creating stuff we love , ' McLaughlin said .

3 ` The money aspect has n't necessarily come through yet , but I 'm confident it will . '

1 Kurpanek also posts his short films online because he knows the way to find a job in this industry has changed .

2 ` It 's definitely easier to get your stuff shown on platforms like YouTube , and having your own Web site makes things easier to show reels , ' he said .

3 Still there are ups and downs , especially in this economy .
3 Marita Gomsrud and her twin sister , Mariel , understand the obstacles .
2 They moved to Los Angeles from New York more than a year ago in hopes of becoming actresses on the big screen .
2 They 've found odd jobs here and there , from modeling to catering , but have yet to land a break .

3 ` It can get really discouraging and frustrating , ' Marita said about going on audition after audition .
3 ` You know LA is going to be hard , but you never know how hard until you get here . '

3 The sisters barely make it from month to month .
3 They put a lot of what they make back into their careers through workshops and acting classes .
3 Marita said it 's hard to hold a steady job because actors have to be able to run out to auditions .

3 ` It 's exciting because your life could change from one Monday to the next ; you could land that job and get that part , ' she said .
3 ` But it 's also scary because your never know if you 're going to work . '

3 Of course , no one would come to Los Angeles if they did n't know the success stories .
3 Kurpanek was let go from a job in November because a film he was working on was shut down .
3 But he fought his way back and is now an assistant editor for Richard Halsey , who won an Oscar for film editing for ` Rocky . '
3 Kurpanek also is looking forward to editing the short film ` CarJack , ' which has a $ 75,000 budget .

3 He 's on his way .
1 But he has some advice for those hoping to find fame and fortune .
2 ` The biggest thing is networking .
1 Be nice .
1 Be friendly to everybody and remember people 's names , ' Kurpanek said .
3 ` And you have to work for free . '
