2 McCain : ` We will unite the party ' - CNN.com .
2 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Sen. John McCain said Wednesday that he will bring the Republican Party together to win the presidency .

2 ` We will unite the party behind our conservative principles and move forward and win the general election in November , ' the Arizona senator said the day after significantly padding his lead over rivals Mitt Romney and Mike Huckabee .

2 Standing in front of his ` Straight Talk Express ' bus , flanked by the man he has called his ` favorite Democrat , ' independent Sen. Joe Lieberman of Connecticut , and Sen. Lindsey Graham , R-South Carolina , McCain said he was ` pleased at the depth and breadth of our victory last night . '

1 Supporters like Lieberman and Graham , he said , ` gave us a broad base of support from all parts of this party . '

3 McCain said he has canceled a planned trip abroad this weekend in order to ` wrap this up as quickly as possible . '
3 Watch what McCain says about his relationship with conservatives

2 McCain took the lion 's share of Republican delegates on Super Tuesday , but still had only about 52 percent of the number needed to secure his party 's nomination .
3 Watch why analyst says Super Tuesday not decisive

2 On the Democratic side , Sen. Hillary Clinton comes away with about 41 percent of the delegates needed for the nomination while Sen. Barack Obama sits at 36 percent .

1 Fewer than 50 votes separate Obama and Clinton in New Mexico , with 98 percent of Tuesday 's vote counted .

3 McCain said he is not worried about concern among ` very conservative ' Republicans that he is not conservative enough for their tastes .

3 ` With conservative voters , which are the majority of Republicans , we did extremely well , ' he said .

3 Comparing his home state with that of his more conservative rival , he said , ` We won by a much larger margin in Arizona than Gov. Romney did in Massachusetts . '

3 ` Is there a lot of work to unite the entire party ? ' he asked rhetorically .
3 ` Sure .
3 After the campaigns are over , you 've always got the task of uniting the party behind the nominee . '

2 But he expressed confidence he can do just that .

3 ` Our message will be we all share common conservative principles , ' he said .
3 ` Fundamental conservative political philosophy , which has been my record . '

3 Now the focus of the presidential races is on primaries in Virginia , Maryland and the District of Columbia next Tuesday .

3 The candidates hope to gain momentum for those with victories in the Louisiana primaries and Washington state caucuses on Saturday .
3 Watch why the races will go on

3 Both the Obama and Clinton campaigns believe Obama has an edge in those races .
3 Clinton will focus on March 4 primaries in Texas and especially Ohio , said the Web site Politico 's executive editor Jim VandeHei .

3 ` There are a lot of working-class whites -LRB- in Ohio -RRB- and she feels she does extraordinarily well with that demographic , ' VandeHei said on CNN 's ` American Morning . '

3 Further along , the Clinton camp sees Pennsylvania on April 22 as a state where the demographics work in her favor .

3 ` I look forward to continuing our campaign and our debates about how to leave this country better off for the next generation , because that is the work of my life , ' Clinton said Tuesday night .

3 Although Clinton took the majority of delegates in large states like California , New York and New Jersey on Tuesday , Obama won more states overall , 13 to Clinton 's eight .
3 Full February 5 results

3 Obama said Wednesday he scored a ` big victory ' on Tuesday and that he was overcoming Clinton 's ` political machine ' that made her the front-runner in every race .
3 ` This campaign is gaining momentum by the day , ' he said at a Chicago news conference , repeating his mantra that he is the Democrat who can bring about change .

3 Howard Wolfson , Clinton 's communications director , called for one debate a week between the two Democrats leading up to the March 4 primaries in Ohio and Texas .

3 ` We won the votes of people who decided on the last day .
3 We did that in large measure ... because of a very strong debate performance , ' Wolfson said .

3 Democratic Party Chairman Howard Dean expressed satisfaction Wednesday with the primaries and what the Super Tuesday results mean for his party .

3 ` I think it 's good that we go deep in the nominating process , ' Dean said .
3 ` I want our candidates to be exposed in all of the states -- in places like Pennsylvania and Washington D.C. , and Virginia , Maryland , Wisconsin .
3 Good for the Democratic Party , good for the country to see candidates up close , ' Dean said on CNN 's ` American Morning . '

1 McCain is the clear front-runner among the Republicans .
3 He 's won more than double the number of delegates than Romney , the former Massachusetts governor , and more than three times those earned by former Arkansas Gov. Huckabee .
3 More about delegates

3 Huckabee , buoyed by victories Tuesday in Arkansas , West Virginia , Georgia , Tennessee and Alabama , pledged Wednesday to stay in the race until the end .

1 ` It may be that none of us have enough -LRB- delegates -RRB- to win the whole thing until we get to the convention , ' he said .
3 ` If I do n't stay in the race , I ca n't win . '

3 Romney on Tuesday won Massachusetts and Utah and came out on top in caucuses in Alaska , Montana , North Dakota and Minnesota .
3 It was enough to keep him plugging .

3 ` We 're going to battle , go all the way to the convention , win this thing , and get to the White House , ' Romney said Tuesday night .

3 But top Romney advisers acknowledged that it will be difficult to overcome McCain 's lead .

3 ` It is tough to saddle up this a.m. , ' one Romney adviser told CNN .
