3 Can T5 's design conquer delays ? - CNN.com .
2 LONDON , England -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Its opening may have been an unmitigated disaster of canceled flights , lost baggage and painful delays , but the architects behind Heathrow Terminal 5 say they hope their $ 8.6 billion colossus will eventually bring a different kind of drama to the traveling experience .

3 Their aim , they say , is to create a departure from the usual story of passengers shuffling down interminable corridors of dull light into windowless caverns of lines and disorder .

1 Mike Davies , from Rogers Stirk Harbour + Partners , the lead architect for T5 , says : ` we have tried to create a high quality of passenger experience by bringing back a generosity of light , space and air . '

3 These may not have been the impressions of the terminal 's first customers , many of whom spent the night sleeping on the building 's floor as technical problems left them stranded .

3 But the architects insist , when it overcomes its teething problems , Terminal 5 should make flying a much more pleasant experience .

3 The journey from Paddington rail station in the center of London to check-in should take only 20 minutes .
3 And passengers arriving by bus or taxi pull up in a separate building , cross flying bridges over a piazza of trees and benches and arrive into the towering space of the terminal .

3 As Davies says , this is a dramatic entry into what is clearly a very , very large space .
1 The terminal is almost 400 meters long and 170 meters deep .
1 But unlike Stansted airport -- another London airport of a similar depth -- there are no internal columns .
2 Ten percent of the roof and every wall let natural light pour in .
2 ` We worked hard to make it feel as light filled as possible , ' says Davies .

3 British Airways , the sole occupant of Heathrow Terminal Five , has installed 96 check-in kiosks , the majority self-service to reduce lines .
3 The baggage system -- which broke down on the opening day -- is ` state of the art , ' says BA .

3 Once through security , there 's more drama as passengers emerge onto a high-level balcony .
3 Look behind and you 'll see Windsor Castle and in front there are floor-to-ceiling views over the runways .
3 As Davies says , ` you do n't emerge into a corridor looking for signs .
3 Instead you can see your plane and intuitively understand how the whole system operates . '

3 There 's also a good view of the shops and restaurants .
3 The retail focus here is high-end -- with the likes of Paul Smith and Harrods as well as the standard array of high street names .

3 Dining is also at the fine end .
3 British celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay has a restaurant , Plane Food , with its own cocktail bar and views across the runway .

3 The space uses a ` common lounge ' concept which means passengers can walk from shop to shop , gate to gate across one giant space .

3 From its new terminal , BA offers the largest lounge complex in the world with six lounge options as well as a spa .
2 Once again , the key feature here is space and spectacular views across the building and runways .

3 Another unexpected feature is a series of art installations .
3 In departures , a towering sculpture of neon lights in Chinese characters has been commissioned to coincide with an exhibition of Chinese design at London 's V&A museum .
3 And outside , two pieces by artists Langlands & Bell bookend the pedestrian plaza .

3 For Davies , T5 is not just a ` cathedral-like space ' ; it is also a ` piece of a city under one great roof ' .
3 And being vertically , not horizontally spread as most other airports , it is also a ` skyscraper ' of a terminal .
1 But Davies ' final analogy is a ` giant market hall ' that , with no internal columns , can be adapted to meet the airport 's changing needs .

3 Whether there are changes to security procedures or immigration , or to the airline 's products and facilities , ` the one thing we can be sure of is that , in 10 years ' time , it will not be the same ' , says Davies .

3 And even though Terminal 5 does n't bring extra runway capacity to Heathrow , it is -- eventually -- expected to relieve some of the congestion and hassle that the airport has become renowned for .

3 ` For the longer-term growth of Heathrow , this provides the shuffle space for them to start improving the rest of the airport , ' says Davies .
