3 Interview with Jose Ramos-Horta - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Dr. Jose Ramos-Horta is the president of East Timor , the former Portuguese colony shattered by conflict in 1999 .
3 The Nobel Peace Prize laureate recently spoke with CNN 's Richard Quest in the presidential office about his lifelong work fighting for his people , achieving independence , and the 2006 violence that plagued the country .
3 Ramos-Horta also spoke about the role the United Nations plays in his country and how he has reconciled with the Indonesian army .

3 BLOCK A

3 RQ : Hello , welcome to Talk Asia .
3 I 'm Richard Quest in Dili , East Timor .
3 Look at the picture behind me , it is picture-postcard perfect .
3 White sandy beaches , crystal-clear blue water , a nice spot for a bit of tourism .
3 But this is East Timor , a country driven by decades of strife and violence .
3 My guest this week on Talk Asia is the new president of the country , Jose Ramos-Horta .
3 This is Talk Asia .

3 We met in Dili where the international community is still working to make East Timor a safe place to live .

3 RQ : For three decades , you fought for independence .
3 And then you got it , and you went one better , you became president of the country .
3 But you are in that very small group of people in the world , who are in many ways , above politics , above party politics .
3 And I think of the prime example , Nelson Mandela , the people who are , have transcended the daily fight .

3 JRH : Well , of course I do n't want to create any , mislead anyone .
3 I definitely do not compare myself to Nelson Mandela .
3 I 'm me , with my limited qualities and my many flaws , my many sins .
3 But yes , I abhorred party politics in this country .
3 I quit party politics almost 20 years ago , to be fairly neutral -- not to be above anyone , but I simply refuse to be involved in our petty partisan politics .
3 It does not mean that there are not many good people in the political party system .
3 Of course there are , there are many good people , and because of them that I have hopes for our country and for democracy in this country .

3 RQ : You are that rare breed of international politician , a Nobel Peace Prize winner , but nobody says no to you .

3 JRH : I 'm fortunate that having spent 24 years abroad , but I put a lot of effort in cultivating people .
3 I have many good friends in Washington , in U.S. Congress , in Europe , in Australia , in Asia , everywhere .
3 But because I did it out of respect for these people whom I came across , and they were very caring about East Timor .
3 So today I 'm very privileged to say that I 'm in the good favor of someone like Bill Clinton , I 'm in good favor of many senators in Washington .

3 RQ : Which countries around the world do you believe you can , if not emulate , at least imitate ?

3 JRH : Well we , of course , we are a bit over a million now .
3 1.1 million .
3 Population growth is very , very high , I do n't know if it 's something we should be proud of .
3 But we have oil and gas resources , tremendous potential for tourism , our coffee is , I would say the best in the world .
1 I would see East Timor develop as Dubai .
1 We have a United Arab Emirates , particularly Dubai .
3 We have oil , we have gas , if we invest strategically , wisely .
3 If we diversify right now our current investment portfolio , where we have 1.5 billion dollars in U.S. treasury bonds , we get 100 million dollars every month , and this will increase in the next few years from other fields .
1 We can turn East Timor into a sort of Dubai in Southeast Asia .

3 RQ : What do you see as being the U.N. 's role here ?
3 What do you think of the United Nations ?

3 JRH : Well the U.N. obviously is not made up entirely of Mother Teresas and the Einsteins .
3 The U.N. is us , all of us .
3 East Timor is a member of the U.N. And we all are the qualities and the flaws .
3 The U.N. in our country was extremely important particularly in 1999 , when the Security Council , in a very expeditious manner , authorized a peacekeeping force , peace enforcing force to come to Timor Leste .
3 But then the Security Council authorized the then U.N. transition administration , to be here only for two years , to build a nation-state from ashes .
3 Well , I told friends in the Security Council , not long ago , a few months ago in New York : Do you realize how long does it take to make a small takeaway business , takeaway restaurant in New York , Manhattan , profitable ?
3 Well , three , five years .
3 Do we want to make a nation-state viable in two years ?

3 RQ : How long will it take , do you believe , to create this nation-state then ?

3 JRH : Well , we need ... because we started from zero in 2002 .
3 The U.N. had two-year mandate to build the institution of the state .
3 In two years !
3 It 's mind-boggling , you know , that they thought in New York that you can build a nation-state in two years .
3 But it was not only the fault of the U.N. Many of our own people here , leaders included , were in a hurry to get in the panels .
3 After 24 years , after 500 years of Portuguese rule .
3 I was a lonely voice who argued at the time in New York and here , we should try to get the U.N. to be here for at least five years and then independence come only at the fifth year .
3 But by the time the U.N. left in 2002 , we have basically the sketch , the skeleton of a state , not a really functioning state .

3 BLOCK B

3 After years of calm ... 

3 RQ : From the outside looking in , you fought for so many years for peace and independence .
3 You got independence .
3 So why is there still violence here ?

3 JRH : Well , sometimes , it 's obviously there is much exaggeration in the way the situation here is reported .
1 The politicians fight each other , but I have not seen a politician in this country fighting each other with guns .
3 The violence that took place last year was mostly done by some elements in the armed forces , in the police , that were ... resented each other .
3 There were rivalries in discipline and there were violence carried out by gangs , youth gangs , partly because of drugs , alcohol , partly because of feeling of alienation , of poverty and unemployment .

3 RQ : But you did call in an external military force from Australia and New Zealand .

3 JRH : That 's true , we could have prevented a civil war on our own , maybe .
3 But at that time , I was foreign minister still .
3 I discussed this dilemma with my friends , my colleagues , including with the bishop .
3 Our pride aside , we simply thought we should not take chances ; we should not risk more people getting hurt .
3 We thought no , we could not risk lives here .
3 There are divisions , deep divisions within our police force , deep divisions within our defense force .
3 The two institutions that are supposed to guarantee security and tranquility to our people were divided up , were fighting each other .
3 So we decided no , let 's call support from our friends like Australia , New Zealand , Malaysia and Portugal .

3 RQ : I 've met many people for whom I 've used the phrase ` They 've lived in exile . '
3 But I 've never understood .
3 So tell me sir , what is it like to go into exile ?
3 What 's it like ?

3 JRH : Well , you know when I first arrived in New York , December ' 75 .
3 Having never been in a big city in my life , have never seen snow in my life , and my duty was to speak before the Security Council at age 25 or 26 .
3 My first meeting was with the-then Soviet Union ambassador Mr. Yakov Malik .
3 Someone in his seventies .
3 He was already Soviet ambassador in San Francisco , when the U.N. was founded .
3 Well , the whole time I was talking to him , briefing him about East Timor , he was sleeping .
3 And because you 're sleeping and because I 'm very polite , I talked even more softly because I did n't want to wake him up .
3 And also I was worried , if I talked too loudly , he 'll wake up , he gets annoyed at me for waking him up .
3 So that was my first great diplomatic encounter in New York .

3 RQ : I suppose you spent a lot of time explaining to people where East Timor is on the map .

3 JRH : That 's true .
3 Most people ... Well , in the U.N. they knew .
3 But Americans , New Yorkers , every time I tell someone that I 'm from East Timor , they say , you mean you 're an Eskimo ?
3 Or they 'll say , oh you 're from Istanbul ?
3 Just to explain to people where we are , who we are , what we want ... RQ : You never gave up , what kept you going ?

3 JRH : No , I actually never thought of giving up .
3 Or every time something like that cross my mind , I would ... A voice would tell me , my conscience would tell me , that if I were to give up , I would be betraying those who trusted me to speak for them .

3 RQ : Your personal loss during the years of struggle was quite huge , was n't it ?

3 JRH : Yes , I lost a sister and two younger brothers .

3 RQ : Two of whom you do n't even know where they 're buried ?

3 JRH : Exactly .
3 Yes .
3 Till today , we do n't know how they were killed , where they were killed .
3 The sister , the luckiest one , she was killed .
3 People saw she 's been killed , she was buried .
3 The local people , humble people , barefoot , poor , kept watch on her for 24 years .
3 Then when I came back , I went to that village , we dug out her body and we reburied in the family grounds in Dili .
3 The other two , we do n't know where , how they were killed .

3 RQ : How do you live with that ?

3 JRH : Well I absolutely ... unable to .
3 It 's part of the enormous sacrifice many other Timorese , thousands of Timorese paid for it .
3 My mother , who today lives in Australia , she does n't ... can not bring herself to accept that reality .
3 She 's very angry why I and the other brothers and sisters , we tend to forgive .
3 She is not prepared to forgive .

3 RQ : But where is your anger , Mr. President ?

3 JRH : Well in the worst of the violence in ' 99 , I was very angry .
3 I wanted to see an international tribunal to charge those responsible for the violence .
3 But then as Indonesian troops vacated East Timor , they were humiliated .
3 You know , Indonesia is a very proud country .
3 Their army was not defeated here , they left because there were changes in Indonesia that took place -- the Suharto dictatorship fell .
3 And they swallowed their pride and they left .
3 Should we wrap the wounds , no , I at that time said no , we must understand them and with them , normalize relations .
3 We met within weeks of our country 's freedom in ' 99 .
3 The deal was still burning .
3 I was already in Jakarta meeting with some of the generals , whose names I heard and when I saw their nametag , I recognized some of their names that were orchestrating the violence here .

3 BLOCK C

3 RQ : You won the Nobel Peace Prize and then you gave away the money and you gave away the medal to be sold for your people .

3 JRH : Yes , I gave away the medal , yes .
3 To those who really deserved it .

3 RQ : What was it like winning the peace prize ?

3 JRH : How was it like ?

3 RQ : What was it like , yes ?

3 JRH : Well , I was embarrassed , I was shocked when I heard the news , I could n't believe .
3 I thought others deserve it more than I did , and of course then it was extraordinary to advance because of freedom of democracy for my country .

3 RQ : But there 's no doubt that winning the Nobel Peace Prize vests the recipients in an authority that nothing else does .

3 JRH : No , the individual , the individual in himself or herself must have had already a lot of credibility .
3 Otherwise you will not win the Nobel Peace Prize .
3 Because of his record , her record , he got the Nobel Peace Prize and then you have international recognition , visibility , and make his life , his work easier .

3 RQ : Vice President Al Gore is the latest recipient of the Prize .

3 JRH : Well , I congratulate Vice President Al Gore for winning the Nobel Peace Prize , for his work on the environment , and on this occasion , I wish to think of the many more whom I know , who have been struggling for the environment for their case in my vicinity , Australia , that is the Australian politician , Doctor Bob Brown .
3 He 's been struggling for making environment an issue for 30 years .
3 I do n't know whether writing a book and making a film is enough to win a Nobel Peace Prize , but I congratulate Al Gore for that , I do n't know what he did .
3 Eight years in White House , whether he did much to advance the cause of the environment , when he was , he was a powerful vice-president of the United States .

3 RQ : So this is your presidential ...

3 JRH : Yeah , that is my humble office .
3 Although I 'm moving to an office you 've seen here on the beachfront .

3 RQ : Is this the one that 's being built with the help the Chinese ?
3 -LRB- JRH : Yeah . -RRB-
3 It 's fast !
3 Why do you need such a big palace ?

3 JRH : Well , we have , we 're walking towards membership in ASEAN .
3 We will need at least 250 staff , and actually the building was designed for 150 .
3 So actually it 's going to be small .

3 RQ : But I 'm very impressed and encouraged sir , your palace is over the road from your people .

3 JRH : Yes , and I always say hello to them and my office is open to their bare foot .
3 Just now I met with some eight to 10 people who came from some remote villages of the country .
3 And I was sitting there chatting with them , and to start implementing with them , the anti-poverty problem , some of the projects that I picked .

3 RQ : How easy is it for an ordinary member of your country to get to see the president ?

3 JRH : Well , of course there are many , many who want to see me , not everybody manage this because of time factor .
3 But yesterday I spent quite a bit of time twice with an old , old lady , such a lovely delightful woman , very simple , illiterate , maybe in her seventies .
3 She came all the way from the rural area , traveling at least four , five hours on a bus to come to see me .
3 Fortunately I saw her , and immediately walked , invited her into the office .
3 So I see people often .

3 RQ : Did she like it ?

3 JRH : Oh yeah , yeah .
3 And I enjoy them , it 's not only my obligation but I actually enjoy them simple people , you know chatting with them , hearing stories from them , but also of course trying to help them .

3 RQ : You said to me sir , if the going gets really tough , and it all gets really nasty , and everybody starts saying ... You 'll tell them what ?

3 JRH : Well I tell them , you know , on camera I have to be diplomatic , but I say these .
3 I do n't need this job , I do n't want this job , so do n't waste your time with demonstrations , do n't waste your shoes , do n't do shouts , do n't scream , it 's just a few of you .
3 Write up a letter to me , saying , Sir , you should resign , and I 'll resign .
3 I 'm not Musharraf , I 'm not Saddam Hussein , I 'm not George W. Bush , who hangs in there eight years , all these .
3 I do n't really care .
3 I 'm here because so many people pushed me .
3 I got 70 percent of the votes .
1 People seem to like me , but if in a few months from now , they realized that it was a mistake , well , just let me know .

3 RQ : Mr. President , thank you for talking to Talk Asia .
3 Thank you , sir .
