3 Interview with Samak Sundaravej - CNN.com .
3 BANGKOK , Thailand -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Thailand 's new Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej is the first to be democratically elected since the nation 's bloodless coup in 2006 .
3 A veteran politician and former governor of Bangkok , Samak is accused of being a nominee of friend and former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra .
3 As he prepares to take office , he joins Talk Asia 's Dan Rivers to discuss his allegiance to his ousted predecessor , corruption , and his alleged role in the Thammasat massacre of 1976 .

3 BLOCK A

3 Taking power at a special ceremony , Thailand 's new prime minister receives an endorsement from the King .
3 He gives thanks to the monarch , then issues a firm message to critics : ` I want to tell those who have held me in contempt , saying in writing and in vilifying speech that I am inept and I do n't know anything , to give me time to do this job . '

3 His election as prime minister comes at a pivotal time for democracy in Thailand .
3 In 2006 , the military launched a bloodless coup against the government of billionaire Thaksin Shinawatra .
3 The junta accused Thaksin of corruption , and dissolved Thailand 's parliament .
3 Samak , a Thaksin loyalist , lost his senate seat .
3 The outspoken veteran politician continued a second career as a celebrity chef .
3 But Samak soon returned to politics .
3 His People 's Power Party made a strong showing in December 's elections .
3 It was formed after Thaksin 's own Thai Rak Thai party was banned , but it shares many of the same policies and people .
3 Samak has vowed to turn the clock back to before the last coup .
3 We meet at his residence in Bangkok .

3 DR : Prime Minister Kun Samak , thank you very much for talking to Talk Asia .
3 You came to power really on the back , many would say , of Thaksin Shinawatra , the exiled former prime minister , who was exiled in the coup a year and a half ago .
3 You made no. .
3 You have n't really hidden your allegiance to him .
3 Explain now how you intend to go forward .
3 Will Thaksin play a role in your government ?

3 SS : He ran the country for five years very successfully , and then there is a coup .
3 It 's ok .
3 They say , a coup is a coup .
3 And then they want to destroy Thaksin , it 's ok , it 's up to them .
3 But he says that the party is killed .
3 He just asked me , is it possible if you set up a party and bring the leftover MPs to enroll in the party ?
3 And then ...

3 DR : So Thaksin asked you to set up your People 's Power Party ?

3 SS : He said , is it possible or not ?
3 I say I can do because I lost my opportunity too .
3 I ran as a senate , five months , so the coup d'etat group , they just kicked me out .

3 DR : What kind of role will Thaksin play now that you are in power ?

3 SS : Oh , he 's the owner of the former party .
3 And then he might get some support by giving ideas to this or that .
3 Five years such a success , so why not if he gives some advice ?

3 DR : So you will take advice from Thaksin ?

3 SS : Not I myself , but the one who do the , especially on the economic group , so they might consult , so I think there 's nothing wrong with this .

3 DR : Because people say you 're merely a puppet , some people have said , of Thaksin .

3 SS : You may say , anybody is a puppet of anybody .

3 DR : So you deny that you 're a puppet ?

3 SS : No , I am myself .
3 I 'm the leader of the party .
3 I run this country , it 's me , I have my own thinking .

3 DR : Not Thaksin ?

3 SS : Not Thaksin .

3 DR : Let 's talk about the cabinet lineup .
3 One of the key posts in the cabinet is defense minister .
3 Obviously with the history of so many coups in Thailand , whoever has the defense minister portfolio effectively controls the army .
3 There 's been speculation you will have the defense minister post as well as being prime minister .
3 Is that going to be the case ?

3 SS : Yeah , well , I intend to do that because in the olden days , there 's an argument always between the military and the government .
3 And the military serves the monarch , we serve the monarch .
3 An argument that happen will not , the King will not feel quite so good if any argument always occur .
3 So we need a neutral by this time .
3 So now we have a good , a good commander-in-chief of the army .

3 DR : How can you guarantee there 's going to be no more coups in Thailand ?

3 SS : I can not guarantee .
1 Last time , when they staged a coup , there 's no reason .
1 Rebel without a cause .

3 DR : Well , the reason they gave was that Thaksin was hugely corrupt .

3 SS : Sixteen months , it does n't prove .
3 Not a single case .
3 They set up a committee and see to it , and until now , just two cases go to the prosecutor , not to the court yet .

3 DR : Central to the charges against Thaksin , his tax-free sale of a controlling stake in telecommunications giant Shin Corporation to a Singaporean company .
3 Thaksin changed financial rules just days before the sale , allowing foreign entities to own up to 49 percent in telecoms firms , from 25 percent previously .
3 Critics accused him of forgoing national interests to reap personal benefits .
3 His wife Pojamarn Shinawatra also faces a series of graft charges and is accused of concealing millions of dollars in stock market shares .
3 She returned to Thailand earlier this month to appear at court for the first charge .
3 At the heart of the case is this plot of land -- it may look like a wildlife sanctuary , but this is in fact prime real estate on the edge of Bangkok .
3 Pojamarn Shinawatra bought this from a government institution in 2003 , while her husband was prime minister .
3 Her critics say she got a huge discount , paying only one third of the initial evaluation .
3 If convicted , the Shinawatras could face more than 10 years in prison .
3 They both deny the charges .

3 DR : Do you think he 's guilty ?

3 SS : Oh , anyone can do something guilty if anyone can prove , but for me , not a friend , not the one who know each other ... DR : You do n't think he 's guilty ?

3 SS : I do n't think that anyone may do something wrong , that does n't think that that is wrong .
3 Such is the first case , he let his wife to buy in the bidding , so they say this is wrong , so this case must go to the court .
3 This is a good example .
3 So ask Thaksin , or ask his wife , they never think that they committed anything wrong .

3 DR : Well , I 'm asking you .
3 Do you think Thaksin was corrupt ?

3 SS : Oh .
3 For me , why must he ?
3 But if he do something and the business that he has done for his friend , for his colleague , and it create some better income than others .
3 Put it this way , corrupt or not corrupt , huh , in the olden days , when anyone invests in this country , you can hold the share only 25 percent , for the rest must be nominee , or any kind of thing .
3 But he decide to change from 25 to 49 percent .
3 Now when he made a change of this from 25 to 49 and then he can sell his share , it costs 73 billion , and then pay no tax because by law pay no tax .
3 This is corrupt or not ?

3 DR : Well , I 'm asking you .
3 Do you think he 's corrupt ?

3 SS : Somebody say it 's corrupt , but for me I say no , this is by law .
3 This is , he might take this opportunity .
3 It must be his wisdom that he can do the trade .

3 DR : But should prime ministers be allowed to make money ?
3 Should n't they be concentrating on the job of prime minister ?

3 SS : For me , for me , I have nothing kind of that .
3 But for him , it 's his business .
3 He do the business and he want to get rid of the share that he hold .
3 To be or not be right or wrong is up to him .

3 DR : Well is it right or wrong ?

3 SS : I think it 's right , because it draw intention for the investor to come , that you can have 49 percent , you have a proxy only 2 , so you can run the company .

3 DR : Will Thaksin come back ?
3 And if so , when ?

3 SS : It 's up to him , up to the case .
3 His wife just mentioned to the court that he will come in May .
3 So the court do agree .
3 He will come or not , it 's up to him .
3 But one thing I must say is that he must come back to face the charge .
3 It 's not dangerous .

3 DR : How much damage was done do you think to Thailand by the coup ?

3 SS : Oh , I can not .
3 It does n't come by figures .
3 It comes by the feeling of the people .
3 The damage that come ... I 'm not an expert in economy , but they say that just from the grassroots to the top , they also have problems .
3 Restaurants say the business 100 percent is going down to 50 percent .
3 They 're buying and selling everything .

3 DR : If the country was so damaged by the coup , what will you do to those who led the coup ?
3 Should they not be punished ?

3 SS : No , no , no. .

3 DR : Why not ?

3 SS : Do believe me .
3 That we call a revenge , a reprisal , a retortion .
3 We have no need to do that .
1 They must feel ashamed by themselves , that is much enough .

3 BLOCK B

2 DR : October 1976 , this grainy footage shows one of Thailand 's darkest episodes -- the Thammasat massacre .
3 Soldiers killed dozens of left-wing students during a frenzy of anti-communist fervor , and Samak was at the scene .
3 He was Deputy Interior Minister -- his enemies accused him of goading the lynch-mobs .
3 The massacre triggered a military coup and remains an emotionally-charged subject in Thailand .

3 DR : Some people are very critical of your past in Thailand , some people have even said you 've got blood on your hands .
3 What would you say to that ?

3 SS : Oh , I deny the whole thing .
3 I have no concern on that business .
3 And I have nothing to do , to deal with that at all .
3 I 'm an outsider by that time .
3 And then the Governor of Bangkok , he is the Secretary General of the Democratic Party and the Deputy .
3 So , the chief of the group asked him to see , so I go along with him .
3 That evening , he talk to the chief of the group , I talk to the military .
3 The guy asked me , what do you think Kun Samak , we close all the newspaper ?
3 I said , it 's impossible .
3 Next morning who will know who is the one who is a reform group , who are they .
3 So next morning , they make the first committee , five .
3 One military , four civilians just to open , to back to normal for all the newspaper .
3 That was what I do .

3 DR : Would you like to take the opportunity now to condemn what happened in 1976 ?

3 SS : Actually it 's a movement of some students .
3 They do n't like the government .

3 DR : But dozens of people , maybe hundreds of people died .

3 SS : No , just only one died .
3 There are 3,000 students in the Thammasat University .

3 DR : The official death toll was 46 , and many people say it was much higher than that .

3 SS : No. .
1 For me , no deaths , one unlucky guy being beaten and being burned in Sanam Luang .
3 Only one guy by that day .

3 DR : So there was no massacre ?

3 SS : No not at all , but taking pictures , 3,000 students , boys and girls lined up , they say that is the death toll .
3 3,000 .

3 DR : People say that your very right-wing rhetoric inflamed the situation .

3 SS : What 's wrong to be the right-wing if it is ?
3 The right-wing is with the King .
3 The left-wing is communist .

3 DR : So do you think Thailand was in danger of falling to communism in 1976 ?

3 SS : Well , a guy called Lomax , he write a book , the book is called , ` Thailand : The War that is , the War that will be . '
3 And he says that this is a domino theory .
3 He says that there will be 10 dominoes around this area .
3 So if Cambodia will be , Vietnam will be , Laos will be , and Thailand will be the number four domino .
3 And from Thailand , it will be Burma , it will be Malaysia , Singapore .
3 Small islands like Singapore .
3 So many islands like Indonesia and later , big islands like Australia and even two tiny islands down under .
3 Ten countries will be communist .
3 We are domino number four .

3 DR : Do you think it 's excusable to kill innocent students in the name of defending the country from communism ?

3 SS : Oh , who kill the students ?
3 If the fighting between the military , the military is to defend for the country .
3 Somebody tried to bring communism into our country , it 's up to them .
3 The casualty , you must go to check what had happened .

3 DR : In 1992 , more bloodshed .
3 An estimated 200,000 people took to the streets of Bangkok to protest against the appointment of a military coup leader as prime minister .
3 Unrest escalated -- A state of emergency was declared and troops opened fire on crowds .
3 Dozens of people were killed , and thousands arrested .
3 Samak was deputy prime minister at the time .
3 The army eventually retreated , ushering in a period of civilian rule , but the event is forever known as ` Black May . '

3 DR : Again protest against the military government , again your name is linked to the bloodshed that followed .
3 What would you say to that ?

3 SS : I was deputy prime minister for three times , nobody mentioned anything .
3 When I resigned and I run as a governor of Bangkok , oh , it 's a murder with blood in hand , you can not be governor .
3 So I bring the case to the court .
3 And when the vote come , nobody kept over 1 million , I got 1 million something , why ?

3 DR : But that does n't answer the question .
3 Were you involved in 1992 ?

3 SS : No. .
3 Even any time , I have no involvement .
3 At any time .
3 At any time of ...

3 DR : Your conscience is clear ?

3 SS : If I do something wrong , I can not come this far .
3 I think my hand is clean and then I can live with it .
3 The people of this country know me , who I am , so I am not afraid .
3 But why they put a stamp on me ?
3 Because I do n't like the press .
3 I do n't like the media .
3 I think actually when they talk good to me , they talk good to them .
3 When they put something slash out to me , I just slash back to them .
3 When you punch me , I punch back .
3 There is no written document that says by human feeling that the prime minister should be a good guy , should talk soft ...

3 DR : I mean , are you a good guy ?
3 How would you describe yourself ?

3 SS : Somebody must describe me , I can not describe myself .
3 But for me , if I have something wrong , I can not come this far .
3 But the hatred of some people , yes , but for me yeah , I do n't hate them , I just feel pity that they have an ill feeling to me .

3 BLOCK C

3 DR : Indulging in a lifelong passion , cooking .
1 Samak became a celebrity chef with his show ` Tasting while Grumbling ' in 2000 , extolling the virtues of Thai cuisine and trips to the local market .
3 He immersed himself in the show after losing office during the 2006 coup , but it 's currently off-air since its broadcaster was taken over by Thailand 's previous military-appointed government .

3 DR : You have a lot of passions in life , not only politics .
3 Cooking is one of your great passions , interests .

3 SS : Actually I have a normal life .
3 I started with a little bit difficulty family .
3 We can not say poor , we can manage to earn , but father , mother have nine children , I 'm number seven .

3 DR : So your poor background to start with ?

3 SS : Yeah , poor background , and by this way , I have to select everyone -- This one do the cleaning , this one do the washing , I do the cooking at 7 years old .
3 That 's why I cook from that time on , and I think it 's right .
3 And I think cooking is an art , and I have done this until now .
3 So for the family first , and then for my own family afterwards , and then now .
3 Ten years ago , when I was an MP , they give one hour on Saturday evening 5-6 , just to talk politics .
3 So I spend about two years , it 's a bore , politics is a bore .
3 I said , politics is a bore , why not we talk about some cooking ?
3 So I just start talking about cooking from that time on .
1 I have a book called ` Tasting while Grumbling . '

3 DR : Tasting while grumbling ?

3 SS : It 's about 28 good things to eat .
3 So it 's a good book .

3 DR : And you 've had a TV series ...

3 SS : ` Cooking While Grumbling , ' no ` Tasting While Grumbling . '

3 DR : And will that program come back on air ?

3 SS : Somebody says that as a prime minister , I have time , but you should not do such a thing like that .
3 I said , No. .
3 I checked the constitution already , there 's no obstruction with that .
3 But I 'll do something like this , now with my house , the camera would come and talk .
3 So I will talk about any kind of food of thing , and you 're going to do cooking .

3 DR : Your image is very much a man of the people , very down-to-earth , very outspoken , some would say , acerbic .
3 Would you agree with that ?

3 SS : I always say that a man who speaks from the mind , you can go along with him .

3 DR : I want to ask you one last question , because we 're running out of time .
3 What about the kind of central theme of much of the criticism against you is simply that you are not statesman material , that there would be better leaders of Thailand than you ?
3 For example , Kun Abhisit , the leader of the Democrat Party here .
3 How would you respond to people who say you 're simply not diplomatic enough to be prime minister ?

3 SS : No. .
3 No. .
3 Why the ambassador came to see me ?
3 Ten ambassadors came to see me , I have no position then .
3 Ten came already , now the American ambassador , why ?
3 The American embassy here must report who I am .
3 He can come to talk to me .

3 DR : And would you say that the people like you ?

3 SS : The people , one million vote for me .
3 Why ?
3 Because they know who I am .
3 Until now , why when I was the leader of PPP , they say it 's because of Thaksin , it might be for some reason , but you can bring anyone to be the leader , not me .
3 What will happen to the PPP ?
3 So it 's a combination , the best of everything that I have done .
3 What they have performed five years ago .
3 But it must be the quality of the leader , like I , who lead the party , so who come this far ?
3 So I was accepted by the people everywhere but not the media .
3 This is ok , it 's up to you .
3 You do your duty , I will do mine .

3 DR : So the country is safe with you ?

3 SS : It must be , and this is my opportunity .
3 Actually to run the country there are all the permanent secretaries of all the military , they have done their job .
3 We are the one just to drive the engine .
3 Now we know how to do that .
3 But one good thing is that , no corrupt .
3 For me , if I corrupt , I can not come this far .
3 If Thaksin did it , he must go to the court , and you must prove .

3 DR : What will you say will be your top priority in government ?

3 SS : Just bring the country back to normal .
3 When they staged the coup , United States turned back to us , EC turned back to us , China turned by the side , Japan turned by the side .
3 So now , when we have a government from election , so they must turn back and then everything will come back to normal .

3 DR : Let 's finish , I know you want to talk about your interest in the naval ships .
3 Tell us about that before ...

3 SS : America has 130 ships like this , 129 sank in the world war .
3 Only one left over to Thailand .
3 United States asked this for 10 years , but my colleagues , he says that it 's better to give back , so the procession have done two months ago , we brought it down to Hong Kong and put it in a dry dock and pull to San Francisco .
3 So you 're returning this ship ... to America .
3 Returning the ship and then they will keep the name , Nakha , keep the name .
3 Keep the garuda , it 's a good omen .

3 DR : On that good omen , I 'm afraid we 're going to have to leave it .
3 Thank you very much for talking to us here on Talk Asia .
3 You 're watching CNN .
3 Join us next time .
