1 You either love or hate my movies , says Tarantino - CNN.com .
3 LONDON , England -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Editor 's note : Watch Tarantino talking about the making of ` Pulp Fiction ' on The Screening Room podcast .
3 To receive regular movie podcasts subscribe here .

3 Quentin Tarantino 's first trip to Sundance was n't exactly a success .

3 ` If you do this in real life , they 're going to fire your ass , ' scolded cinematographer Stephen Goldblatt , veteran of films like ` Lethal Weapon ' and ` Charlie Wilson 's War . '

3 The novice filmmaker was participating in a directors ' workshop at the Sundance Institute -- the film trust founded by Robert Redford which also runs the Sundance Film Festival .

3 Unfortunately , Tarantino 's mentors were just not feeling his experimental approach .

3 The following week , a new group of mentors arrived , including ex-Monty Python member and filmmaker Terry Gilliam .

3 Tarantino and his editor steeled themselves for the inevitable disapproval : ` Then Terry Gilliam comes in and goes ` Oh , your scene .
3 Just great ! '' recalls the director .

3 He is talking at the Cannes Film Festival Cinema Masterclass , following in the illustrious footsteps of directors like Wong Kar Wai , Sydney Pollack and Martin Scorsese .

3 ` It was just like , you know what , that 's gonna be my career .
1 People are gonna either really like me or they 're really not and just get f \*\*\* ing used to it 'cause this is the deal , ' Tarantino says .

3 A second visit to Sundance in 1992 proved more fruitful .
3 His debut feature , ` Reservoir Dogs , ' a sassy , hyper-violent gangster movie , was the hit of the year .

3 French film critic and regular on the European film festival circuit , Michel Ciment still remembers the effect it had on him when it showed at Cannes later that year : ` It was a big shock .
3 I remember it was the most striking new American film since ` Mean Streets ' 30 years before . '

3 Despite the impact of his droll , assured debut , Tarantino recalls being convinced he was going to get fired in the first two weeks of production .

3 ` I just thought it was too good to be true .
3 I could n't help but think something like ` they do n't let people like me make movies , '' he says , laughing .

1 Follow-up movie ` Pulp Fiction ' was awarded the coveted Palm D'Or at Cannes two years later , cementing his reputation as a movie-maker to be reckoned with .

3 It was filled with the dark humor and bloody violence that would become known as Tarantino trademarks .

3 The B-movie-obsessed director admits to getting a kick out of creating humor in inappropriate situations .

1 ` I 'm trying to get you to laugh at things you 've never laughed at before , ' he explains .

2 He cites his ` bigtime ' influences as movie brats like Martin Scorsese and Brian De Palma , as well as Sergio Leone and Howard Hawks .

3 In person , he is a great raconteur and his expletive-littered speech is not a million miles away from the dialogue that 's so central to his movies .

2 ` I tend to think of myself as more of a novelist who makes movies than a director per se , ' he declares .

3 But he dismisses his apparent love of language as a product of writing for acting classes : ` I started writing as an actor and it was all about dialogue and writing scenes to do . '

3 Before moving into directing , Tarantino studied acting for six years and says learning to act for the camera gave him an insight into how directors put a movie together -- frame by frame .
3 That was what really taught him how to write for the movies .

3 ` All of a sudden I started seeing -LRB- film -RRB- in a whole different way .
3 When you start doing that , then it 's only a few short steps until you start composing shots of your own , ' he explains .

3 Tarantino has shown himself to be one of the most music-savvy directors of this generation with his use of songs like ` Little Green Bag ' by the George Baker Selection in the opening sequence of ` Reservoir Dogs ' and Nancy Sinatra 's ` Bang Bang -LRB- My Baby Shot Me Down -RRB- ' in ` Kill Bill Vol. 1 . '
3 He , not immodestly , puts that skill down to his great music collection .

3 ` The thing is , I have one of the best soundtrack collections in America , ' he boasts .

2 That probably accounts for his scathing determination never to use film composers : ` I do n't trust any composers to do it .
3 I would just never give anybody that kind of responsibility , ' he says , ` Who the f \*\*\* is this guy coming in here , throwing their s \*\*\* all over my movie ? '

2 And he admits that his inner film buff enjoys the cornerstones of action cinema that some of his later movies have explored .

2 ` I love action scenes , but they are hard , and in a way that 's what 's fun about them .
2 These cool little puzzles .
2 To me , action scenes are some of the most cinematic moments that you can do in film , ' he says .

3 ` Kill Bill Vol. One ' and ` Kill Bill Vol. Two , ' starring Tarantino muse and Hollywood A-lister Uma Thurman , are his movie-geek nod to the kung fu genre .

3 When he started filming ` Vol. 3 One , ' Tarantino had n't made a film for six years and with typical chutzpah challenged himself to choreograph astonishingly intricate fight scenes .

3 ` If I throw my hat in the ring with the greatest action directors who ever lived ... I wanna be as good as them , ' he asserts .

3 He continues to work his way through his action movie checklist .

3 In his latest movie , ` Death Proof , ' a homage to sleazy 70s B-movies that stars Kurt Russell as a murderous stuntman , he puts his own spin on another of action film 's fundamentals -- the car chase .

3 Tarantino is critical of CGI being used so much in film today .
3 All the seat-grippingly tense stunts in ` Death Proof ' are real and he specifically cast a stuntwoman , Zoe Bell , in one of the leading roles to achieve this .

3 It may have been ambitious , but ` Death Proof , ' which is one half of ` Grindhouse , ' a B-movie-referencing double bill he made with fellow director Robert Rodriguez , got a critical mauling and did n't fare much better at the box office .

1 But then Tarantino has long been resigned to people either loving or hating his movies .
