1 Man dies after cop hits him with Taser 9 times - CNN.com .
2 WINNFIELD , Louisiana -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- A police officer shocked a handcuffed Baron ` Scooter ' Pikes nine times with a Taser after arresting him on a cocaine charge .

2 He stopped twitching after seven , according to a coroner 's report .
2 Soon afterward , Pikes was dead .

1 Now the officer , since fired , could end up facing criminal charges in Pikes ' January death after medical examiners ruled it a homicide .

1 Dr. Randolph Williams , the Winn Parish coroner , told CNN the 21-year-old sawmill worker was jolted so many times by the 50,000-volt Taser that he might have been dead before the last two shocks were delivered .

1 Williams ruled Pikes ' death a homicide in June after extensive study .

1 Winn Parish District Attorney Christopher Nevils said he will decide on any charges against the ex-officer , Scott Nugent , once a Louisiana State Police report on the case is complete .
3 Watch coroner describe how cop might 've Tasered a dead man

2 ` It 's taken several months for this case to even be properly addressed , so one has to wonder , why did it take so long ? ' said Carol Powell Lexing , a lawyer for the Pikes family .
3 ` Obviously , a wrongful death occurred . '

3 Nugent 's lawyer , Phillip Terrell , said his client followed proper procedure to subdue a man who outweighed him by 100 pounds .
3 But Williams said Pikes was already handcuffed and on the ground when first hit with the Taser , after the 247-pound suspect was slow to follow police orders to get up .

3 Winnfield , a sleepy lumber town about 100 miles southeast of Shreveport , Louisiana , is best known as the birthplace of legendary Louisiana governors Huey and Earl Long .
3 It 's also about 45 miles northwest of Jena , Louisiana , where a racially charged assault case sparked a September 2007 demonstration by an estimated 15,000 people .
3 Watch racism charges fly after Taser death

3 One of the teenage defendants in that case , Mychal Bell , is Pikes ' first cousin -- and his lawyer was Powell Lexing .

3 Nugent is white ; Pikes was black .
3 His death led to demonstrations that drew several dozen people in Winnfield , where the population of about 15,000 is roughly half African-American .

1 ` The family wants justice , ' Lexing said .
3 ` This is just another example of why it 's very important to stay vigilant with these types of cases , on the injustice that 's been perpetrated on the disadvantaged . '

3 But Winnfield police Lt. Chuck Curry said race ` is n't an issue at all ' in the matter .

3 ` This has come down to a police officer that was trying to apprehend a suspect that they had warrants for , ' he said .
3 ` He done what he thought he was trained to do to bring that subject into custody .
3 At some point , something happened with his body that caused him to go into cardiac arrest or whatever . '
3 See how Tasers work

3 According to police , Pikes was wanted on a charge of possession of cocaine when police tried to arrest him outside a shopping center January 12 .

3 ` He would not stop for the officer , ' Curry said .
3 ` At some point in there , he was Tased to bring him under control , and several hours later , died at the emergency room . '

3 Terrell said Pikes was fighting Nugent ` on uneven ground ' amid obstructions such as concrete blocks and barbed wire .

3 ` He 's fighting , wrestling with an individual who weighs 100 pounds more than him , ' he said .
3 ` His partner had just come back to the police department from triple bypass surgery and could not assist Officer Nugent . '

3 Terrell said his client ` used every means possible ' to take Pikes into custody before pulling out his Taser , a weapon Winnfield police purchased in 2007 .

3 ` The only thing he could have done other than to say , ` OK , we 're going to let you go ' is to beat him or Tase him .
3 He did the right thing , ' Terrell said .

2 Williams , who ruled Pikes ' death a homicide in June after extensive study , said Nugent fired his Taser at Pikes six times in less than three minutes -- shots recorded by a computer chip in the weapon 's handle .
2 Then officers put Pikes in the back of a cruiser and drove him to their police station -- where Nugent fired a seventh shot , directly against Pikes ' chest .

3 ` After he was given that drive stun to the chest , he was pulled out of the car onto the concrete , ' Williams told CNN .
2 ` He was electroshocked two more times , which two officers noted that he had no neuromuscular response to those last two 50,000-volt electroshocks . '

3 Williams said he had two nationally known forensic pathologists , including former New York city medical examiner Michael Baden , review the case before issuing his conclusions .
1 He said it 's possible Nugent was shocking a dead man the last two times he pulled the trigger .

3 ` This fellow was talking in the back seat of the car prior to shot number seven , ' he said .
3 ` From that point on , it becomes questionable -LRB- if Pikes was still alive -RRB- . '

3 Curry said Pikes told officers he suffered from asthma and had been using PCP and crack cocaine .
3 But Williams said he found no sign of drug use in the autopsy , and no record of asthma in Pikes ' medical history .

3 In the year since Winnfield police received Tasers , officers have used them 14 times , according to police records -- with 12 of the instances involving black suspects .
3 Ten of the 14 incidents involved Nugent , who has no public disciplinary record .

3 Nugent was suspended after Pikes ' death , and Winnfield 's City Council voted 3-2 to fire him in May .
3 He is appealing his dismissal , and his lawyer says he followed proper procedures in Pikes ' case .
3 He was trained in the use of the Taser by a senior police officer who was present during the incident that led to Pikes ' death , Terrell said .

3 Curry said Taser International , the device 's manufacturer , indicates that ` multiple Tasings do not affect a person . '
3 But he said he could not explain why Pikes was shocked so many times , and said whether Nugent followed proper procedure was ` yet to be determined . '

3 But a copy of the Winnfield Police Department 's Taser training manual , obtained by CNN , says the device ` shall only be deployed in circumstances where it is deemed reasonably necessary to control a dangerous or violent subject . '
3 And Williams said regulations regarding the use of Tasers were not followed .

3 ` It violated every aspect -- every single aspect -- of the department 's policy about its use , ' the coroner said .

3 Winnfield has seen a spate of high-profile corruption cases in recent years .
3 One of Nevils ' predecessors as district attorney , Terry Reeves , killed himself amid allegations of embezzlement and extortion .
3 The town 's current police chief , Johnny Ray Carpenter , is a convicted drug offender who received a pardon from former Louisiana Gov. Edwin Edwards who himself is now serving a federal prison term for racketeering .

3 And Carpenter 's predecessor , Gleason Nugent -- the father of Pikes ' arresting officer -- committed suicide in 2005 , after allegations of fraud and vote buying in the race for police chief , an elected position in Winnfield .

3 Now Nevils is awaiting the state police report on Pikes ' death , which will be presented to a grand jury for possible charges against Nugent -- a possibility Curry said would be a blow to the department .

3 ` It 's one of these no-win situations , ' he said .
3 ` No matter the outcome , nobody 's going to win in this case . '
