3 Return to Tehran a memorable journey - CNN.com .
3 -LRB- Tribune Media Services -RRB- -- In summer , I flew from Istanbul 's Ataturk Airport to Tehran 's Khomeini Airport to film a public television show on Iran .
3 For an American , it was eye-opening from the first moment .
3 When the pilot said , ` We 're taking this plane to Tehran , ' nobody was alarmed .

3 The wide-body jet was filled with well-off Iranian people .
3 Although their features were different from mine , they dressed and acted just like me .
3 As so often happens when I travel , I was struck by how people are so similar the world over .
3 I wished the big decision-makers of our world were n't shielded from opportunities to share an economy cabin with people like this .

3 I had made this same Istanbul-to-Tehran trip 30 years ago .
3 Last time it took three days on a bus , and the Shah was on his last legs .
3 Wandering Iranian towns in 1978 , I remember riot squads in the streets and the Shah 's portrait seeming to hang tenuously in market stalls .
3 I also remember being struck by the harsh gap between rich and poor in Tehran .
3 I was 23 years old and confronted with realities that my friends who stayed home were oblivious to .
3 I believe that was the first time in my life I was angered by economic injustice .

3 My Istanbul-Tehran trip was much quicker this time -- it took only three hours rather than three days .
3 Every main square and street that was named ` Shah ' back then is now named ` Khomeini . '
3 In the 1970s , all denominations of paper money had one face on them .
3 They still do today , but the face is different .
3 At Khomeini International Airport , the only hint of the Shah were some of the travelers -LRB- many of those flying in were likely his supporters who fled Iran for the West in 1978 , and were coming back to visit loved ones -RRB- .

3 I made a mental note to myself to remember that emigres -LRB- from any country -RRB- I meet and talk with in the USA may have intriguing insights .
3 But they are a group with something in common -- a reason and the wherewithal to leave their homeland .

3 As the pilot began our descent into Tehran , rich and elegant Persian women put on their scarves .
3 With all that hair suddenly covered , I realized how striking long hair can be -- how it really does grab a man 's attention .
3 Looking out the window at the lights of Tehran reminded me of flying into Mexico City at night .
3 Greater Tehran is huge , with more people than all of Greece .

3 A youthful and noisy capital city , Tehran is the modern heart of the country .
3 This smoggy , mile-high metropolis , with a teeming population of 14 million in the metropolitan area , has apartment blocks that stretch far into the surrounding mountains .

3 My impressions of modern-day Tehran were strong .
3 There were playful Revolutionary Guards , four-lane highways intersecting with no traffic lights , ` Death to America ' murals , and big , warm , welcoming smiles .
3 Iran is a fascinating and complex paradox .

3 I stepped out onto the 15th-floor balcony of my fancy hotel room to hear the hum of the city and to enjoy the view of a vast , twinkling city at twilight .
3 Fresh snow whitened the mountains above the ritzy high-rise condos of North Tehran .

3 Looking straight down below , I saw the hotel 's entryway buzzing with activity .
3 The hotel was hosting a conference on Islamic unity , and the circular driveway was lined by the flags of 30 nations .
3 Huge collections of flags seemed to be common in Iran -- perhaps because they provided a handy opportunity to exclude the Stars and Stripes .
3 -LRB- Apart from the ones featured in hateful political murals , I had n't seen an American flag . -RRB-

3 A van with an X-ray security checkpoint was permanently parked outside the entrance .
3 All visitors entering the hotel needed to pass their bags through the van first .
3 It was interesting to see that Iran , a country we feel we need to protect ourselves from , had the same security headaches we do .

3 Back in my room , I nursed a tall glass of pomegranate juice .
3 My lips puckered from munching lemony pistachios from an elegantly woven tray -- they were the best I 've ever tasted -LRB- and I am a pistachio connoisseur -RRB- .
3 I cruised the channels on my TV : CNN , BBC and lots of programming designed to set the mood for prayer .
3 One channel showed a mesmerizing river with water washing lovingly over shiny rocks .
3 Another showed the sun setting on Mecca , with its Kaaba -LRB- the big black box focus of pilgrim worship -RRB- , in real time .

3 Lying back on my bed I noticed an arrow on the ceiling -- pointing to Mecca .
3 I had hardly been outside my hotel , and already I realized that visiting a theocracy would be a memorable experience .
2 -LRB- ` Rick Steves ' Iran ' will air on PBS throughout the USA in mid-January . -RRB-
