1 Official : Al Qaeda-inspired extremism remains concern - CNN.com .
1 WASHINGTON -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- U.S. vulnerability to al Qaeda-inspired extremism in Europe continues to be the key worry of the National Counterterrorism Center , the head of the agency told a Washington think tank Wednesday .

2 ` Violent extremism in Europe remains at the center of our concerns -- both for the danger it poses to our European allies and our interests , as well as the potential danger it poses to the United States , ' said NCTC Acting Director Michael Leiter .

1 The center is responsible for analyzing all terrorism intelligence .

3 Leiter cited as an example the 2006 thwarted plot to blow up American passenger planes flying from Britain to the United States .

3 Also , recently disrupted plots in Spain , Denmark and Germany had connections to al Qaeda and were , ` at the very least inspired by -LRB- Osama -RRB- bin Laden 's public call to wage war against the West , ' he said .

1 Although intelligence analysts indicate the United States does not face the same level of threat from al Qaeda that Europe does , Leiter said the nation ` remains the top target for al Qaeda 's operational planners . '

3 Leiter called the handful of American homegrown plots ` less sophisticated ' than the ones in Europe .
3 But he said he finds them troubling because they involved people who crossed ethnic and religious lines , unlike those overseas .

1 Leiter also expressed concern about al Qaeda expanding its global reach -- in particular to North Africa , where he said it has aligned with two terrorist groups .
3 One of the groups is believed to be responsible for a suicide bombing two months ago in Algiers , Algeria , that killed nearly 70 people .

3 Although Leiter focused on the threat from al Qaeda , he pointed out that the Wednesday death of Hezbollah terrorist Imad Mughniyeh demonstrates there are other violent extremists who threaten the West .

3 He said he is worried about complacency 6 years after the September 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks on New York and Washington .

3 ` Every day that we move farther from 9\/11 ... we run the risk of falling back into old and , I believe in this case , bad habits , ' Leiter said .
3 He stressed the need for continuing cooperation among government agencies in fighting what he called a ` long war . '

3 The counterterrorism chief concluded his remarks by urging Americans to ` continue to engage in a thoughtful , national debate on how this war and struggle should be fought so that we can , as a nation , take whatever measures are necessary for us to defeat a determined foe . '

3 Leiter delivered his assessment at the Washington Institute , a think tank focused on Middle East issues .
