1 Thai PM admits boat people pushed out to sea - CNN.com .
1 BANGKOK , Thailand -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Thailand 's prime minister suspects there were ` some instances ' in which Myanmar 's Rohingya boat people were pushed out to sea , a frank admittance of a practice drawing worldwide condemnation .

3 In an exclusive interview with CNN Thursday , Abhisit Vejjajiva said he could not pinpoint who in the government approved the practice , but said he was working on rectifying the problem .

3 ` It 's not exactly clear whose work it is , ' Vejjajiva said .
1 ` All the authorities say it 's not their policy , but I have reason to believe some instances of this happened , but if I can have the evidence as to who exactly did this I will certainly bring them to account . '

2 Thousands of Rohingya refugees -- a Muslim minority group from Myanmar -- have fled to Thailand over the years and many of them have been housed in Thai camps near the Myanmar border .

2 In some cases , there are charges that many of them have been kicked back out to sea from Thailand .

1 A recent CNN investigation found evidence of the Thai army towing an apparent boatload of 190 Rohingya refugees out to sea , prompting Thai authorities to launch an investigation .

3 And a group of the refugees rescued by Indonesian authorities last week told harrowing tales of being captured , beaten and abandoned at sea by the Thai military .

3 Actress Angelina Jolie , a goodwill ambassador for the U.N. refugee agency , spoke out on the plight of the refugees last week as she visited the area with her husband , Brad Pitt .

3 She asked Thailand to permit greater freedom of movement for the roughly 111,000 refugees housed in nine camps along the Thai-Myanmar border .

3 Vejjajiva said ` at times ' there has been ` a lot of pressure in terms of the numbers of these people coming in . '

1 ` There are attempts , I think , to let these people drift to other shores .
3 I have asked whether people are aware of such practices .
3 The one thing that is clear is that when these practices do occur , it is done on the understanding that there is enough food and water supplied . '

3 The prime minister said he regrets ` any losses ' that may have occurred from the refugees ' ordeals , but he said he is ` doing the best I can to correct the situation . '
