1 Stars come out to support tiger initiative - CNN.com .
1 WASHINGTON -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Citing tiger population counts that have dwindled to a few thousand , several Hollywood stars have come out in support of a preservation campaign announced Monday by the World Bank .

3 The head of the World Bank , Robert Zoellick , told those gathered at a news conference at the National Zoo that the conservation initiative will find out ` how to work with the local communities , so we can preserve some of the areas in which the tigers live . '

1 Actor Harrison Ford , known for his support of environmental causes , said , ` I 'm here to celebrate the World Bank 's plan to form a global alliance of conservation partners , to work with the tiger range nations in order to secure a future for these magnificent creatures . '

1 The audience included former actress Bo Derek , now a special envoy at the State Department fighting trafficking in wildlife .
3 She told CNN the World Bank 's initiative to save the tigers should help counter ` demand for their body parts , mainly in Asia , ' and ` loss of habitat ' caused by the exploitation of natural resources .
3 Watch Derek talk about her role in conservation

1 Actor Robert Duvall , who lives in the Virginia countryside about 50 miles from Washington , came in to lend his ` moral support ' to the World Bank 's initiative for tigers .

1 ` I 've always thought they might be the single most beautiful animal in the world , ' Duvall told CNN , adding that ` people hunt them like crazy .
3 They 're wacko when it comes to shooting things . '

3 Derek spoke to reporters at the State Department Monday , where she expanded on her efforts to protect endangered wildlife from illegal trafficking .

3 She appeared at a briefing with Claudia McMurray , the Assistant Secretary for Oceans Environment and Science , who said that illegal wildlife trafficking is worth an estimated $ 10 billion a year .

3 China is the largest market for trafficked animals used for exotic pets , rare foods , trophies and medicine .
3 The United States is the second largest market in the world .

3 As Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice 's Special Envoy for Wildlife Trafficking , the former movie star said she is focusing her efforts on public awareness of the problem .

3 ` It was very embarrassing for me to find out that the U.S. is number 2 in consuming endangered wildlife , ' she said .
3 ` I travel often , and so many times someone will tell you ` you can buy this , it 's made of tortoiseshell , but it 's a safe tortoiseshell .
3 It 's not endangered . '
3 I think education and awareness is critical . '

3 Derek said that China has a very successful public awareness campaign and the Chinese government has been very cooperative in trying to educate the public about the problem .

3 Derek voiced concern about the future survival of various species of sharks , which are being captured and de-finned for shark fin soup , considered a rare delicacy in Asia and in the United States .

3 ` It 's very difficult to know how many there are left in the world , ' Derek said .
3 ` Some studies show that in the past 20 years , they 're down 90 percent .
3 They reproduce very slowly .
3 I think that unless people just stop eating the -LRB- shark fin -RRB- soup , I do n't think the species has a chance . '

3 While it is illegal to traffic shark fins into the United States , enforcing the law is difficult once the animal parts make it into the country .

2 The World Bank will initially explore local and regional programs that have worked against poaching of endangered tigers , and will next determine how much financing it would take to help replicate the programs elsewhere .

3 Regional programs against tiger poaching are linked with rising populations tallied in the Russian Far East , according to the report from the World Bank .

3 Zoellick emphasized his group is ` not the key player ' but only serves as a catalyst for countries in the region to coordinate efforts to save tigers at risk in their areas .

2 The World Bank 's initiative will focus 13 countries where tiger poaching threatens remaining populations in the wild : Cambodia , Laos , Nepal , Bhutan , Bangladesh , Malaysia , China , Thailand , Myanmar -LRB- Burma -RRB- , Indonesia , India , Russia and Vietnam .
