2 U.N. summit to tackle global food crisis - CNN.com .
2 UNITED NATIONS -LRB- AP -RRB- -- World leaders at a U.N. summit have the opportunity to devise a strategy to stop skyrocketing food prices from adding millions more to the multitudes of those across the globe who already lack enough to eat .

1 The Rome-based U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization is hosting the three-day summit , which starts Tuesday , with the goal of averting a looming catastrophe of widening malnutrition and civil unrest among poor people unable to afford basic foodstuffs because of what the World Bank calculates has been an 83 percent increase in prices in the last three years .

3 Some 40 heads of state or government are expected at the summit , including French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak .

1 During the summit , the head of the U.N. plans to urge world leaders to help bring down soaring food prices by immediately suspending or eliminating many price controls and other agricultural trade restrictions .

1 U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will press nations to ease a wide variety of farming taxes , export bans and import tariffs to help millions of the world 's poor cope with the highest food prices in 30 years , U.N. officials said .

1 Ban , who also seeks to increase world food production , intends to request that the United States and other nations phase out subsidies for food-based biofuels , including ethanol , that have been used to encourage farmers to grow crops for energy use rather than human consumption .

2 ` What we are looking for is at least an agreement on how to deal with the issue of biofuels and subsidies that is not detrimental to the needs of poor people , ' said one U.N. official in New York .
3 Several U.N. officials spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because they did not want to upstage Ban 's speech .

3 Another U.N. official said in Rome that the U.N. sought to give governments and donors multiple options .
3 That official also described Ban 's proposals as confidence-building measures .

3 In a related move Thursday , World Bank President Robert Zoellick announced an international effort to overcome the global food crisis by providing an extra $ 1.2 billion in grants and loans .

3 Ban hopes that donor nations at the Rome meeting will develop a concrete plan to revitalize and redirect the global response to hunger .

3 World prices for food are expected to fall from current peaks in the coming years but will remain ` substantially above ' average levels from the past decade , according to a joint agricultural report issued by the U.N. 's FAO and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development .

1 Food prices have been skyrocketing worldwide due to high oil prices , changing diets , urbanization , expanding populations , flawed trade policies , extreme weather , growth in biofuels production and speculation .
3 They have sparked riots and protests from Africa to Asia and raised fears that millions more will suffer from malnutrition .

3 Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe is participating in the Rome summit , and his presence drew criticism from officials who blame the longtime African leader for an economic policy that led to grinding poverty , hunger and high food prices .

3 ` While Robert Mugabe makes political statements in Rome , his people continue to face empty markets at home , ' U.S. President George W. Bush said in a statement .

3 Mugabe did n't answer reporters ' shouted questions as he left a posh hotel on Rome 's Via Veneto Monday and got into a car .

3 European Union sanctions against Mugabe because of Zimbabwe 's poor human rights record forbid him from setting foot in the EU -- but those sanctions have no bearing on his participation in a U.N. forum .

3 Ban 's recommendations are in a draft report to be presented at the summit by the U.N. task force that he created to deal with the problem .
3 Officials said it could cost $ 15 billion to implement , according to preliminary figures that account for what is contributed by governments , donors , U.N. agencies and the World Bank .

3 The draft report contains two sets of recommended actions , one responding to immediate needs , the other to longer-term needs .

3 In the short term , Ban plans to urge that the U.S. and other developed countries negotiate an agreement with poorer nations to scale back on agricultural tariffs that hurt struggling , subsistence farmers .
3 He also calls for targeted subsidies so that poor farmers can increase their pension payments and buy more fertilizer and seeds .

3 In the longer term , he hopes to increase farm production by boosting investment in agriculture , irrigation and roads , the officials said .

3 ` This is a case where the rising food prices are presenting an opportunity , ' the U.N. official in New York said .
3 ` It 's a major objective to find a way to put those tools in the hands of farmers -- meaning fertilizers , seeds and other tools .
3 And if they 're using targeted subsidies , that would make sense . '

3 The task force has the backing of U.N. food agencies and major players such as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund .

3 The biofuels proposal was already meeting with resistance .
3 On Monday , three biofuels trade group leaders from the U.S. , Canada and Europe wrote to FAO Director-General Jacques Diouf to protest word of the U.N. plan .

3 ` There is no question that the escalating prices for food require serious attention and action by the world 's leaders .
3 It would be highly precipitous , however , for the United Nations or other international bodies to single out biofuels as the major cause for escalating food prices and take actions that might lead to even higher food prices , ' the trade leaders wrote .
3 ` Relying on flawed assumptions provides an inaccurate picture of the impact of biofuels . '
