3 Chavez will celebrate anniversary with summit - CNN.com .
1 CARACAS , Venezuela -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez will celebrate 10 years in power next week by holding a rare summit with some of his closest leftist allies in Latin America .
2 Attending will be leaders or representatives from a group called the Bolivarian Alternative for the Peoples of Our Americas , better known as ALBA .
1 Chavez and his allies started the group a few years ago in attempt , they said , to counterbalance United States influence in Latin America .

3 Chavez announced the gathering Monday on state-run Radio Nacional de Venezuela , commonly called RNV .
3 He called it ` an extraordinary summit of ALBA . '

3 Bolivian President Evo Morales , Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega , Cuban Vice President Carlos Lage , Honduran President Manuel Zelaya and Dominica Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit will attend , RNV said on its Web site .

3 Cuban President Raul Castro will not be there because he is on a trip to Asia , El Universal newspaper said .

3 At ALBA 's latest meeting in Caracas in November , the leaders began discussion on the creation of common currency throughout the region , El Universal said .
3 Officials talked about creating a currency called a ` Sucre , ' a Spanish acronym for ` Unified System of Regional Compensation . '
3 Sucre is also the constitutional capital of Bolivia , where the Supreme Court meets , and the main currency in Ecuador .

3 A meeting scheduled for mid-December to discuss regional economic integration was canceled , the newspaper said .

3 Chavez was elected president of Venezuela in 1998 , six years after a failed coup attempt to depose then-President Carlos Andres Perez .
1 He was sworn in on February 2 , 1999 .

3 He was re-elected in a special election in July 2000 after a new constitution was adopted and again in 2006 .

3 The new constitution limits him to two consecutive six-year terms , but the Venezuelan congress recently approved a referendum for February 15 that would allow Chavez to run for a third term in 2012 .
3 Venezuelans narrowly rejected a similar measure in a December 2007 referendum .

3 Chavez has been campaigning hard in favor of the referendum .

3 Bolivians approved a new constitution Sunday that will allow that nation 's president , Morales , to run for another five-year term in December .
