1 Crews gain on California fires - CNN.com .
1 PARADISE , California -LRB- AP -RRB- -- Moist air and calmer winds helped firefighters make progress Saturday on a deadly wildfire in the Sierra Nevada foothills , the latest hot spot in an unprecedented fire season that has made much of California a disaster area .

1 Thousands of people evacuated from their homes twice during the last month began returning to Paradise for the first time since Tuesday .
3 About 300 homes remained threatened in and around the town , down from 3,800 homes on Friday , while officials said the fire was 55 percent contained .

1 ` For the first time , we 've really turned the corner , ' said Kim Sone , a spokeswoman for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Prevention .
3 ` There 's more resources staffing the fire , and the weather has changed .
3 We 're getting good relative humidity and the winds are subsiding . '

3 An evacuation order remained in effect for the nearby town of Concow , where 50 homes were razed and one person was apparently killed this week after wind-propelled flames jumped a containment line .
3 The person 's charred remains were found Friday in a burned-out home .
3 The person has n't been identified and a cause of death has n't been determined .
3 Watch how close the fire got to some homes

3 The Butte County blaze is one of hundreds of wildfires that have blackened nearly 1,200 square miles and destroyed about 100 homes across California since a rare lightning storm ignited most of them three weeks ago .

3 Officials say more fires have been burning at one time this year than during any other period in recorded California history .

3 ` This is truly a national disaster .
3 The magnitude is incredible , ' said Daniel Berlant , a state fire agency spokesman .

3 U.S. Forest Service spokesman Jason Kirchner said firefighters have spent hundreds of millions of dollars fighting the blazes , and that does n't include the economic cost to businesses , tourism and agriculture , or the impact on air and water quality .
3 Map

3 Officials warn the state could suffer a lot more because fire danger is typically highest in Southern California in the fall , when hot dry winds could scour hillsides desiccated by a two-year drought .

3 ` The ground is set for some really horrific events , bigger than we 've seen so far , ' Max Mortiz , co-director of the University of California Center for Fire Research & Outreach .
3 The conditions show a need for more research into the patterns of weather , wind and geography that could show where fires are likely to flare into infernos , he added .

3 About 20,000 firefighters from 41 states and Puerto Rico were fighting more than 320 active fires around the state , and more were on the way from Mexico , Canada , Australia and New Zealand .
1 Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has ordered 2,400 National Guard troops to join the fire crews on the ground for the first time in more than 30 years .

2 In Paradise , where a separate blaze destroyed more than 70 homes last month , residents returning Saturday found a town that did n't live up to its name .

3 Fine ash sifted from the sky , coating homes and vehicles with a soft gray shroud .
3 Eye-stinging smoke from the collection of fires that have blackened nearly 78 square miles choked the air .
3 Many returning residents wore dust masks .

3 Bob May , 69 , hosed the ash off his driveway , happy to be home to take care of the two cats he and his wife left behind when they fled to their daughter 's house across town Tuesday .

3 Even as they lifted the evacuation order for Paradise , authorities prevented residents of the immediate Concow area from returning home .

3 ` It 's frustrating .
3 I 'm a little angry , ' 56-year-old Roseville resident Rick Harrison , said has he sipped beer while waiting with his wife and brother-in-law to check on their property .
3 Firefighters had told them their houses had been destroyed .

3 Elsewhere in California , state transportation officials said they expect to reopen coastal Highway 1 on Sunday morning , three weeks after it was closed as a massive wildfire swept through the tourist town of Big Sur .
3 Fire officials shifted mandatory evacuation areas there Saturday .
3 The fire was about 46 percent contained after burning nearly 115,000 acres and destroying 26 homes .

1 Farther south , a separate blaze in the Los Padres National Forest near Santa Barbara that prompted mass evacuations last weekend was 85 percent contained after blackening more than 15 square miles .

3 Evacuation orders for homes along the southern flank of the fire were canceled Saturday morning , though about 85 homes higher up surrounding hillsides remained under evacuation .

3 In far Northern California , the Trinity County Sheriff 's Department ordered evacuations in the mountains east of Redding , where the remoteness of the area initially made the wildfires there less of an urgent priority .

3 The fires threatened the Junction City and French Gulch areas along Highway 299 , fire officials said .
3 Two-hundred National Guard troops arrived there Friday for final training before joining other fire crews on Monday .

3 A letup in the wind aided firefighters in eastern Washington state battling a wildfire that erupted Thursday in a heavily wooded part of the Spokane Valley .
3 It destroyed at least 13 houses and forced 200 residents to evacuate .
3 No injuries have been reported .
3 The suburban Spokane fire , which grew to nearly 2 square miles , was caused by embers from a small backyard fire , authorities said Saturday night .
