1 Anti-Islam film 's director goes to Washington - CNN.com .
1 -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- A right-wing Dutch politician arrived in the U.S. Thursday to show his controversial film attacking Islam .

1 Geert Wilders says he fears the Islamization of Europe but his short film on the subject has provoked death threats , Muslim protests and led the UK to refuse him entry .

1 In the U.S. , Wilders is touring with the film ` Fitna ' and meeting with lawmakers in Washington .

1 The 16-minute documentary juxtaposes passages of the Quran with the mass murder of 9\/11 and other acts by extremist Muslims .

3 He says if liberal lawmakers in Europe can ban Adolf Hitler 's ` Mein Kampf ' then they should also bar Islam 's holy book .

3 But his critics argue he is twisting selected passages from the Quran to suit his argument in the same way that extremists do to promote terrorism .

3 Wilders told CNN : ` It would be ridiculous to say all Muslims are terrorists .
3 This is nonsense .
3 But most of the terrorists in the world today are Muslims ... 

3 ` Islam is not just another religion .
3 I believe Islam is more a totalitarian ideology .
3 I have nothing against Muslims .
3 The majority of Muslims in our societies are law-abiding people . '

2 In another CNN interview he said : ` I believe that we should be proud and stand up and say , well we do n't want our children and grandchildren living in a world , in a country dominated by Islamic culture that is only at the end of the day costing us all our freedoms . '
1 ... I have nothing against Muslims , but I am very much afraid of the Islamization of our continent . '

3 Radwan Masmoudi , from the Center for the Study of Islam and Democracy : said ` I know he does n't have a beard and he looks nice with his blond hair , but his views and his opinions are extremely mirror image , exactly mirror images of what al Qaeda has been trying to teach .
3 He is the al Qaeda of the Netherlands . '

1 Wilders was invited to the U.S. by Republican Senator John Kyl to show ` Fitna ' to lawmakers in a Senate building near the Capitol .

3 Kyl said ` all too often , people who have the courage to point out the dangers of militant Islamists find themselves vilified and endangered . '

3 When he answered a similar invitation from a British politician , the UK government called Wilders a threat to community harmony and therefore to public security , and refused him entry to the country .
