1 Europe offers huge tariff cut to seal trade deal - CNN.com .
1 GENEVA , Switzerland -LRB- AP -RRB- -- The European Union said Monday it would be willing to slash farm tariffs by 60 percent as part of a new global trade pact , the deepest cut it has ever offered .

1 EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson told reporters at the World Trade Organization -LRB- WTO -RRB- that the offer was meant to kick-start a week of crunch-time talks on a new global commerce pact .

3 The 27-nation bloc has previously proposed to cut the tariffs by 54 percent , but it was unclear what Mandelson 's new figure fully entailed .
3 Some trade officials suggested the cut was only an EU recalculation of its old offer .

3 Negotiators are aiming for agreement on liberalizing agriculture and manufacturing this week , so that the 153-member WTO can clinch a final deal to reduce tariffs and subsidies by the end of the year .
3 The talks have dragged out for seven years and many observers are skeptical an accord can be reached .

1 ` We 've decided to help the negotiations this week get off to a strong start by raising the average cut in our agricultural tariff , ' Mandelson said .
2 ` That is a very considerable improvement on our own part , but of course it 's light years away from any effort we 've previously made in a trade round . '

3 But , he added , the offer was not a gift .
3 It depended on emerging economies such as Brazil , India and China responding with improved offers on lowering industrial tariffs to give European manufacturers more access to their markets .

3 Rich and poor countries have clashed repeatedly in the seven-year WTO talks known as the Doha round .
3 Developing nations want agricultural subsidies in rich countries to come down so they can sell more of their produce , while the U.S. , EU and others seek better access for their manufacturers and banks .

3 ` If we do n't all make the same sort of effort ... then we 're not going to get through to the end as we need to do this week , ' Mandelson said .

3 While the EU 's farm tariffs have been an issue of dispute -- especially inside the bloc with countries skeptical of agricultural liberalization like France and Ireland -- it is not clear how much pressure Brussels had been under from its trading partners .

3 The U.S. , Brazil and other powerful agricultural exporters have recently focused on securing better conditions for trade in beef , dairy , sugar and other products sensitive for European farmers that would be shielded from deep cuts .

3 It remains to be seen how effective the EU 's offer will be in convincing developing countries to open up their manufacturing markets or the U.S. to cut its farm subsidies , another main sticking point of the negotiation .

3 Mandelson said he had yet to see ` any movement or any flexibility on industrial tariffs from the fast-growing economies . '

3 ` We need to see that , ' he added .

3 Earlier , the chief U.S. negotiator said she was focusing on substance this week and not on talk that divides people , in her first public comments since Brazil 's foreign minister on Saturday compared rich countries ' deception in commerce talks to the tactics used by Nazi propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels .

3 Schwab , the daughter of Holocaust survivors , said ` this is not the time and not the week for falling back on tired rhetoric -- rhetoric designed to perpetuate old divisions or create new ones . '

3 On Monday , Schwab and Amorim met privately to discuss issues such as U.S. farm subsidies and barriers to Brazil 's automotive sector , according to officials with knowledge of the talks .
3 The officials , who asked not to be identified because the meeting was confidential , said there was no movement from either side .
