1 Zakaria : Vote moves U.S. and India closer - CNN.com .
1 NEW YORK -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh won a vote of confidence this week , allowing his ruling party to keep in play a proposed nuclear partnership with the United States .

3 A loss also would have doomed a nuclear deal , announced in 2006 and signed by U.S. President George Bush and Singh a year ago , that would expand U.S.-Indian cooperation in energy and satellite technology .

3 The deal would give India access to U.S. nuclear fuel and technology for civilian nuclear power plants -- even though New Delhi , which tested nuclear weapons in 1974 and 1998 , declined to join international nonproliferation agreements .

3 The leaders of India 's two Communist parties have accused Singh of surrendering India 's sovereignty to the United States with the deal .

3 CNN spoke to world affairs analyst and author Fareed Zakaria about this week 's developments .

3 CNN : What does the confidence vote in India mean ?

3 Zakaria : On the surface , nothing , because the government stays in power .
3 But it 's potentially a huge shift .
3 The Congress Party now rules without the support of the Communist Party .
3 The Communists have been a huge obstacle both on economic issues and the nuclear deal .

3 CNN : What does it mean for the nuclear deal ?

1 Zakaria : India will now go forward with the deal negotiated with the United States .
1 If all goes as expected , it will mean that India will become a ` recognized nuclear power , ' in return for which its programs will be subject to some international scrutiny .

3 Some nonproliferation hardliners are opposed to the deal , but they do n't seem to realize that these were the only terms under which India would have been willing to come inside the nonproliferation tent .

3 CNN : But India has nukes already , how does this make things different ?

3 Zakaria : In economic terms it means that India will now have access to nuclear technology from around the world .
3 In geopolitical terms it is a huge shift .

1 It marks the beginning of a new Asian balance of power , with India moving closer to the United States to keep a check on the growing power of China .

3 CNN : What will an Indian government without Communist Party support mean ?

1 Zakaria : The government has the opportunity to jump-start economic reforms .
3 Despite the sterling reputation of the current economic team , the Indian government has actually done almost nothing in terms of economic reforms .

3 Its term so far has been a huge wasted opportunity .
3 Now it has a second chance .
1 It could put in places economic reforms , spur growth and investment , and move India to a higher growth trajectory .

3 CNN : Will this make the U.S. and India get closer ?

2 Zakaria : I think that 's already happening .
1 India and the U.S. have been getting closer .
3 Getting rid of the Communists will make the government-to-government relationship stronger .

3 But there is also a society-to-society relationship that is becoming very deep .

3 Every week , some delegation of Indians visits America and vice-versa .
3 These two countries seem to understand each other .
3 They 're large , messy , chaotic , multicultural democracies .

3 The wonder is it took them so long to find each other .

3 Editor 's note : Fareed Zakaria is a preeminent foreign affairs analyst and hosts ` Fareed Zakaria : GPS ' on CNN at 1 p.m. ET Sunday .
