1 ` Bloody Sunday ' paved road to Obama White House , activists say - CNN.com .
3 SELMA , Alabama -- For almost 60 years , Grace Britton Sweet has had the right to vote .
3 She can vividly recall the day she registered .

1 As an African-American woman living in the South , she was one of a few black Americans who had the right to cast a ballot as early as 1953 .
3 In states like Alabama , literacy tests were given as a way to bar African-Americans from voting .
3 If a black person was unable to answer questions such as , ` If a person charged with treason denies his guilt , how many persons must testify against him before he can be convicted ? '
3 they would be denied the right to vote .

3 Whites were often asked far easier questions , if any at all .

3 When Sweet went to the registrar 's office and wrote ` Mrs. ' before her name , the person registering her scratched it out .
3 Sweet wrote it again , and again it was scratched out .
3 The person accompanying Sweet optimistically told her to ` leave it alone , that 's coming .
3 Let 's get you registered to vote . '

2 In the mid-1960s , all of that changed .

1 ` We gave the nation the Voting Rights Act here in Selma , ' says Sam Walker , the curator of the National Voters Rights Museum .

3 ` We like to say that the people were the lowest they could go and they knew that they did n't want to be treated that way anymore , ' says Walker .
3 ` So , they wanted to do something to change the condition that they were under , and so they set out to change those conditions by obtaining the right to vote . '

3 In 1965 , civil rights leaders organized three voting rights marches in Selma .
3 The first , on March 7 , 1965 , was from Selma to Montgomery , Alabama .
3 Bob Mants was one of the organizers .
3 He remembers how they decided who would lead the march for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference .
3 What would MLK say ?

3 ` They flipped coins to decide who would lead for SCLC , and Hosea -LRB- Williams -RRB- lost .
3 So he was to lead the march , ' recalls Mants .

3 Williams and Georgia Rep. John Lewis , who was then chairman of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee , led hundreds of civil rights marchers over the Edmund Pettus Bridge .
3 As the marchers crossed over the bridge , which spans the Alabama River , state and local police waited on the other side in riot gear .
3 The marchers were tear-gassed and pummeled with billy clubs .
3 Network news cameras captured the violence that outraged much of the nation .

3 ` People got up from their homes from all over America and just flooded into Selma .
3 Just in a couple of days , thousands of people got up and some came regardless of race , religion , all types of backgrounds , ' remembers Walker . '
3 -LRB- They -RRB- came to Selma saying this is America and people in America should never be treated like this . '

1 Bloody Sunday , as it came to be known , led to swift passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 , which prohibited any state from denying any United States citizen the right to vote based on race .

3 ` Because of the media coverage of -LRB- Bloody Sunday -RRB- , it infuriated people , ' Mants says .
3 ` There were people in this country that did not know there were black people in the South who were disenfranchised . '

1 Bloody Sunday was more than just a singular event , and Walker and Mants say President-elect Barack Obama has benefited from the sacrifices made by the civil rights marchers they call ` foot soldiers . '

3 ` We 'd be foolish and naive to think that the election of Barack Obama as president of the United States is an end , ' cautions Mants .
3 ` There are still some other basic and fundamental issues that this country has to deal with ... and one of the major concerns is the distribution of wealth . '

3 Mants says that even though there are ` black faces in high places , ' he hopes to see the quality of life improve for more Americans .

2 Both men have no doubt that Obama 's moment in history would n't have happened without the bloody march in Selma more than four decades earlier .

3 Today , the National Voters Rights Museum sits just yards from the Edmund Pettus Bridge .
3 Inside the door to the left is a wall of notes left by many of the people who marched that day .
3 Some 43 years later , Mants says the lifelong struggle was worth it .

3 But did he ever think he would see an African-American president in his lifetime ?
3 ` Yes , because there are some of us who kept our eyes on the prize , who never turned back , and -LRB- believed -RRB- that we shall overcome , ' Mants says .
1 ` There 's nothing more powerful than an idea whose time has come . '

3 Longtime voter Grace Britton Sweet thinks so , too . '

3 -LRB- Obama -RRB- is one of the greatest things to ever happen , ' she gushes .

3 She plans to have a front-row seat for Obama 's inauguration when she watches the swearing-in from her living room with her prayer group .
3 Forget the crowds , Sweet says , ` I can see it better on my TV . '

3 This is one event she would rather see in its entirety than in person .
