2 Commentary : What Obama must say Tuesday - CNN.com .
2 PRINCETON , New Jersey -LRB- CNN -RRB- -- The inaugural address is a seminal moment in the development of every president .
3 This is a relatively short speech , normally thin on detail and big on message points .

1 Obama , an inspirational orator , must use this opportunity well .
3 As he confronts an enormously challenging economy and an unstable world , particularly after the terrorist attacks in India and fighting in Gaza , Obama must capitalize on this moment to positively shape the character of his presidency .

3 If he looks back in time for guidance , Obama can learn a lot from some of his predecessors as he decides which messages should and should not make it into the final text .

1 One source of inspiration should be President John F. Kennedy , the other young and charismatic commander-in-chief , who in 1961 delivered one of the most moving inaugural speeches in American history .
3 The entire event was meant to provide Americans with a sense the nation was moving forward into a new era .

3 The Kennedy clan joined him on stage , and African-American singer Marian Anderson sang the national anthem .
3 The battle for civil rights was heating up at this time , so Kennedy 's choice for the anthem sent a signal to the public , especially Southerners , that he was committed to achieving integration .

2 But it was his words that made the biggest impression .
2 Few sentences have resonated as powerfully as Kennedy 's call on Americans to embrace civic obligation as he said : ` Ask not what your country can do for you ; ask what you can do for your country . '

3 One of Dwight Eisenhower 's speechwriters said to Kennedy that ` you have truly inspired the excitement of the people . '
3 The speech was a smash hit .

3 In that one sentence , Kennedy highlighted the theme of service to the country that has been sorely lacking from political debate since 9\/11 .
3 Even as the nation entered into a prolonged war against terrorism , Americans have not been asked to do much for the nation .
3 We were told to shop to keep the economy moving .

3 The government did not seek to restore the draft , it did not seriously pursue a national service program and taxes were cut .
1 By re-introducing the theme of civic obligation in post 9\/11 America , Obama can explain what each American in 2009 owes the country rather than vice versa .

3 He does not need to do so in a reprimanding tone , but should instead , like Kennedy , package his call to participate within a broader message about the greatness this nation is capable of achieving .

1 A second theme in Obama 's address must be the restoration of national confidence in the economy , in the government and in the country itself .

2 Here Obama can turn to President Franklin D. Roosevelt .
3 In his landmark address in 1933 , FDR attempted to calm a nation that faced a 25 percent jobless rate and a banking system deteriorating by the day .

3 FDR explained to Americans that ` the only thing we have to fear is fear itself -- nameless , unreasoning , unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts . '
2 Through these words , he hit the perfect note .

3 FDR inspired many voters who had doubts as to whether the Depression would ever end and whether this president would be different from Herbert Hoover .
2 According to historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. , almost half a million people wrote letters to the White House with words of praise , including one person who said , ` it was the finest thing this side of heaven . '

3 The speech established an intellectual foundation for the First Hundred Days , a period when FDR boldly embarked on improvisational policymaking that stabilized the economy and offered a commitment by the government to seek security for the country .

2 Today , Americans need to have their confidence restored once again .
2 Right from the start , FDR understood that the path to true political greatness was to play to the hopes and aspirations of the nation , even in crisis , rather than its fears .

2 Obama must do the same .

1 Finally , Obama needs to outline a philosophy of government .
2 Though President Ronald Reagan and Barack Obama come from different political traditions , Reagan took a step with his first inaugural address that could serve as a useful as a model for Obama .

3 Reagan said that ` government is not the solution to our problem ; government is the problem . '
3 In doing so , he offered his supporters and opponents a core argument to guide his initiatives and help keep the various factions of the conservative movement behind his presidency .

3 Obama takes over the White House after decades when Democrats have struggled to define what their party is about .
3 Democrats have spent much of their time fighting a rear-guard action against modern conservatism , focusing most on distancing themselves from the word liberalism , usually failing to inform American voters just what they would stand for if they regained control .

3 Now is the chance for Democrats to do something different .
3 As president , Obama must start the process of definition with a line like Reagan 's .

3 Throughout the campaign , even Obama 's supporters acknowledged that his ideas about government , as opposed to his approach to electoral politics , remained vague .
3 Using Reagan as an example , Obama should tell Americans what ideas will guide his efforts as he attempts to revitalize the country .

3 Hundreds of millions of people around the world will be watching and listening as Obama delivers his first major speech as president .
3 The new president will succeed if he can use this moment as the first step for his overarching concept -- his New Deal , his Great Society , his struggle to get the country moving again .

3 The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Julian Zelizer .
3 Editor 's note : Julian E. Zelizer is a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University 's Woodrow Wilson School .
3 He is completing a book on the history of national-security politics since World War II , to be published by Basic Books .
3 Zelizer writes widely on current events .

