Green roofs cool cities combat climate change say Germans .
LONDON England CNN If your neighbor mentions their green roof you might think they have a moss problem .
Maybe they are simply referring to the color .
But you unlikely to think that they have just had a mini ecosystem installed .
Simply put green roofs are gardens on your roof .
They come in all shapes and sizes and range from a simple layer of turf to hanging gardens of Babylon .
But green roofs are not just aesthetic .
They have important environmental benefits : they absorb storm water reduce noise pollution absorb heat thus lessening the urban effect and add an extra layer of insulation to buildings .
That why they are increasingly being used on new builds as the construction industry looks to make use of greener technologies .
The concept of a green roof goes back centuries : The turf roofed dwellings of the Vikings are early examples but the modern green roof we know today was developed in Germany 50 years ago .
Since then they have become increasingly popular yet the industry still struggles against skeptics who believe green roofs to be expensive and liable to leaking .
The exception to the rule has been Germany where the industry is now annually worth $ 77 million .
Even by the end of the 1990s 50 million square meters of German roofs the equivalent of 10 percent of flat roofs were recorded to be green .
The industry is not faring so well in other parts of the world .
While the UK has seen a steady increase in interest since the 1960s a lack of input from the industry and has left Britain far behind Germany booming market .
In North America green roofs have taken even longer to catch on .
Green Roofs for Healthy Cities a Canadian industry association conducted a survey in 2005 which indicated that only square meters of green roofs existed in North America .
But this was up 80 percent from the previous year and the market continues to grow .
Majora Carter who set up Sustainable South Bronx to help lift the area out of poverty by creating jobs is frustrated by this difference between the European and American industries .
In Germany they are down to $ 20 per square meter which is way cheaper than a regular roof here she told CNN .
There are mandates over there because of the storm water they retain she continued Which is a huge drain on their resources as it is on ours .
What we are trying to do is champion the policies behind storm water .
Storm water is a growing problem in cities .
The lack of permeable surfaces are loading drainage systems and increasing the risk of flooding .
It green roofs ability to retain high levels of precipitation that are seen as way to control and slow the water .
The mandates Carter refers to are part of Germany Green Area and Biotope Area Federal Law .
They are not a legal requirement but through incentives set up at a city level the mandates have helped to encourage cheaper prices .
Dusty Gedge of a UK Web site promoting the green roof industry believes it is the government responsibility to help the industry grow .
We need government bodies to accept certain civil engineering benefits such as storm water amelioration like the Germans Austrians and Swiss do he told CNN .
This will encourage uptake .
In many countries the green roof industry is vulnerable to and a lack of understanding .
Gedge says There are problems with the construction industry viewing vegetation as a problem and not a benefit .
Green roofs also struggle against technologies such as solar panels but Gedge points out Solar panels can work better on green roofs than on gray roofs .
Despite this lack of support the green roof industry is growing .
In London alone there are approximately 1 million square meters of green roofs planned with about square meters already installed .
And as climate change stays in the headlines the popularity of green roofs is growing .
According to Gedge Over the last eight years green roofs in the UK have gone from being a very marginal approach to a mainstream approach .
Cities such as London and Sheffield are now asking for them as part of planning applications .
But Gedge also believes that support from local government as opposed to a centrally driven policy is key to the industry growth .
In Switzerland green roofs are federal law but again this is interpreted at a cantonal and city level he told CNN .
This is a much better approach than driven by the center .
Managing the industry through federal laws offers a general framework which can then be interpreted as needed .
In an industry that varies from project to project this flexibility is a valuable asset .
So the green roof industry continues to grow but there a feeling that government support could be better .
With a little more encouragement what once was an eccentric way to roof your home could soon become the universal standard turning our cities into lush green metropolises .
But then it not easy being green .
.
Would you put a green roof on your home ? .
Do green roofs really help the environment or are they an expensive indulgence ? .
Share your views in the Sound Off box below .
