The rise of the SWF .
CNN As President George Bush wrapped up his tour of the Middle East some of the region biggest investors were doing business in the .
Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal topped up his holding in banking giant Citigroup as part of a $ billion cash injection from a group of backers including the Kuwait Investment Authority .
The same day the Kuwait Investment Authority also participated in a $ billion boost for investment bank Merrill Lynch .
They the latest in a long line of substantial investments emanating from the Middle East ; most made by Sovereign Wealth Funds spending the proceeds of the oil boom .
What are they ? .
Sovereign Wealth Funds SWFs are not a new phenomenon the first was founded in 1953 but recently they become much more active .
In the past six months in the financial sector alone they taken stakes in Morgan Stanley UBS and Bear Stearns as well as Citigroup and Merrill Lynch .
How much are they worth ? .
Figures vary as many of the larger funds do divulge valuations .
Morgan Stanley says combined they could be worth as much as $ trillion .
Standard Chartered says the total assets managed in SWFs correspond to around 12 percent of the market capitalization of the NYSE or about 42 percent of total stocks on the Tokyo Stock Exchange .
Who owns them ? .
Sovereign Wealth Funds are solely the preserve of Middle Eastern royalty .
Norway Government Pension Fund is one of the biggest SWFs in the world worth an estimated $ 322 billion .
Singapore China and Russia also have sizeable funds .
In fact they all featured Standard Chartered Super Seven ; funds with more than $ 100 billion in assets .
In recent years more countries have jumped aboard the SWF wagon .
Among the most recent are Chile Economic and Social Stabilization Fund 2006 and Venezuela National Development Fund 2005 .
Where does the money come from ? .
The biggest single source of funding for the largest SWFs is oil and other commodities .
As oil prices swelled so too did government coffers .
Excess foreign reserves are also a source of funding .
And of course as the value of their assets grows SWFs too will have more money at their disposal .
In ten year time Standard Chartered estimates they be worth $ trillion .
Morgan Stanley forecasts a more optimistic $ trillion .
Who are the big spenders ? .
The Abu Dhabi Investment Authority is the world biggest SWF in dollar value as well as a proportion of the Emirate GDP .
Estimates of its size vary widely from $ 250 billion to $ 1 trillion .
Standard Chartered puts it about at $ 625 billion .
One of its most recent purchases was a $ billion stake in Citigroup last November .
Sounds great what the catch ? .
Many commentators view the rise of SWFs as a positive force in the world market .
For example while the prospect of a recession in the has sent other investors running for cover they been willing and able to pump vast sums of money into the banking sector .
However there some trepidation about their lack of transparency ; many do provide details of their size investment returns or asset allocation .
The secrecy has stoked concerns about their investment motives .
Some countries are worried that SWFs will give other governments undue influence over important local companies .
The challenge is to ease concerns about strategic investments while not setting up too many barriers to foreign money .
to a friend .
