CES preview : Touting tech in a brutal economy .
LAS VEGAS Nevada CNN As techies converge on Las Vegas this week for the 42nd annual International Consumer Electronics Show they encountering an industry that anxious about marketing gadgets in a tightwad economy .
With many Americans struggling to pay bills find jobs and even avoid foreclosure it may seem like an extravagance to spend hundreds of dollars on a laptop or a digital camera .
But financial fears also are causing consumers to spend more time at home where they still want to be entertained .
Industry observers believe this nesting trend could sustain demand for products players stereos video games cheap computers that brighten the family room while easing the sting of canceling that Disney World vacation .
We about to experience a renaissance in entertainment said Scott Steinberg publisher of .
History proves that even during times of recession people are willing to invest heavily in great escapes and products that take their mind off the concerns and vagaries of everyday life .
That being said consumers are becoming smarter about how they spend their money he added .
This year mindset will be less about luxury than convenience and a specific gadget or technology pure ability at the end of the day to get the job done .
Watch some of the gadgets already getting attention .
With an uneasy eye on the economy tech companies seem to be scaling back expectations for CES which kicks off officially on Thursday .
Attendance will likely be down about 8 percent and few blockbuster announcements are expected .
Industry heavyweights also are downsizing the usual slate of lavish corporate parties that in 2006 saw the Foo Fighters gigging for Motorola and Intel hosting The Black Eyed Peas .
The has really been a lot quieter than it been in recent years said Kent German a senior editor at who is attending his fifth CES .
German believes more tech companies are choosing to launch products at other times of the year when they do have to compete for attention .
At CES there just so much noise he said .
I can see companies saying Let do it another time on our own terms .
Even so as the biggest annual showcase of new tech products CES will always make headlines .
After all past shows have introduced the world to the CD player and the plasma TV .
This year trade show which wraps Sunday features exhibitors including the CES debuts of such marquee companies as Blockbuster Electronic Arts Mattel and Verizon Wireless .
Tech observers also are curious to see Internet giant Cisco Systems launch its line of products Palm unveil its Nova operating system and Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer offer an early preview of Windows 7 .
It not going to be exactly the same .
Attendance is going to be down PC Magazine editor Dan Costa told CNN .
But it still a massive show .
And there going to be a lot of news there .
: Are you excited about CES ? .
So what trends and products will be making news most often at CES ? .
Based on a scouring of tech blogs and interviews with industry observers here a brief roundup of what will be hot in Vegas this week : .
Netbooks In a weak economy these small and cheap laptops will continue to be popular .
Already loaded with webcams and other features these computers will soon come with GPS and touch screens as well all for prices under $ 500 .
Look for a new wave of them at CES .
Thin OLED TVs .
You heard of LCD and LED now meet OLED which stands for organic diode and creates a gorgeous picture .
For now they also way too expensive Sony the world first OLED TV costs $ for an screen but they cool to look at .
The screen panel on the Sony model is only 3 millimeters thick .
Sony has showcased its OLED TVs at CES before but expect to see prototypes from them and from Samsung who said it plans to show its version of the technology as well said CNET news reporter Erica Ogg .
Mobile devices .
Touch screens once limited to smartphones such as Apple iPhone are filtering down to devices as well .
Cell phone manufacturers also are increasingly building phones that shoot sharper photos and better video .
The biggest buzz might be building around Palm remember the Palm Pilot ? .
which is looking to regain relevance with the launch of an overhauled and Nova operating system for its mobile phones .
I very interested to see what Palm has to say said CNET Ogg .
The company really needs a hit it has fallen so far behind its competitors like RIM and Apple in terms of smartphone innovation that Palm really has to hit this one out of the park .
Wireless home electronics .
Will this mark the year we can finally say goodbye to that cumbersome tangle of wires behind our TVs and stereos ? .
Probably not but we getting there .
Interconnected smartphones PCs laptops media extenders video game consoles and digital music players are quickly infiltrating the mainstream consciousness and modern home said Steinberg of .
I would go so far as to say that the wireless revolution is completely in full swing but it definitely patiently waiting its turn at bat he added .
All the market lacks at the moment is standardization and a core catalyst a single unifying code of conduct that enables media of all sorts to play well together on devices of all sorts .
More green products .
Motorola is rumored to be launching a phone made from recycled tech waste .
And at least several manufacturers are promising to unveil pioneering environmentally safe batteries including one made without lithium or lithium ion .
Downloadable video players .
We going to see a lot of devices that offer downloadable video be they players or video game consoles said Costa of PC magazine who believes prices of players will keep dropping .
All these devices can download video over the Internet some of it in HD quality .
That the type of device we going to see a lot more of and it makes perfect sense when people are looking to nest at home .
