Caught in the opt-out trap CNN.com .
-LRB- Tribune Media Services -RRB- -- When Angela Gross buys a ticket through Frontier Airlines Web site it tacks on an extra $ 10.95 for travel insurance .
How did it manage to do that ? .
By having a checked box on the booking screen that she had to opt out of .
Now Frontier is balking at a refund .
Q : I have a question about travel insurance that I bought online when I booked airline tickets .
Actually I did n't mean to buy the insurance .
I was on the Frontier Airlines Web site and there was a little box that was automatically checked that indicated I wanted to pay an extra $ 10.95 for travel insurance .
It was a lot like one of those pre-checked boxes that sign you up for sales campaign e-mails from a company .
Only this time I had to pay for it .
The box was hard to see and the purchase did n't show up until after I bought the ticket .
Frontier says it ca n't help me and that I have to go through the travel insurance company for a refund .
The insurance company AIG Travel Guard has n't responded to any of my requests .
I do n't think it should be a default setting to purchase travel insurance and I want my money back .
Can you help me ? .
-- Angela Gross Englewood Colorado .
A : Frontier should n't have charged you for insurance you did n't want .
The airline engaged in something I call unethical pre-checking -- signing you up for a service you did n't want .
The least it could do is offer a fast refund .
Instead it punted to AIG Travel Guard .
Needless to say AIG should have quickly refunded your money too .
Instead it stalled .
What 's the world coming to ? .
When both companies balked at a refund you should have written a brief polite e-mail to both companies requesting a refund .
To underscore your seriousness why not copy the Transportation Department and the insurance commission for the state in which you live ? .
Since those agencies track the number of complaints they get about companies they 'll be particularly interested in what you have to say .
If that does n't work try escalating your complaint to an executive .
E-mail works best .
At Frontier e-mail addresses are formatted as follows : first initial last name -LRB- no space -RRB- @ flyfrontier.com ; at AIG it 's firstname.lastname @ aig.com .
I 'm giving you the conventions because the names of executives can change but e-mail address formats generally do n't .
Pre-checking a box is frowned upon in the online community .
The more accepted practice is to opt in to a service or purchase -- in other words checking the box if you want to buy insurance .
I asked both companies for a response .
AIG spokesman Dan McGinnity said you should be able to get a full refund for your policy and that his company has no control over the way in which its products are sold by a third party .
We do offer a full refund for clients who decide they do not want the travel insurance protection as long as they contact us prior to their trip he said .
A small percentage of Frontier 's customers -- less than half of 1 percent -- have asked for their money back .
Steve Snyder a spokesman for Frontier said the airline should have offered you a full and immediate refund when you phoned but defended the practice of pre-checking .
Quite frankly he told me we are selling a product that we believe in .
He noted that travel insurance covers items that typically cause people to change their flights and we think $ 10.95 insurance is a better deal than a $ 150 change fee plus fare difference .
Since your query Frontier made some changes to its site to make the opt-out box as obvious as possible according to Snyder .
While I applaud that I think there 's one more change that ought to be made : to allow passengers to opt in -- not out .
Frontier refunded you $ 10.95 .
