Investigation into Qantas jet emergency begins CNN.com .
-LRB- CNN -RRB- -- The Australian air safety agency is investigating Saturday the emergency landing of a Qantas Boeing 747 in the Philippines after a hole in the fuselage made the plane lose cabin pressure .
Officials from two U.S. transportation agencies said initial findings indicate that no act of terrorism was involved .
According to early reports a section of the fuselage separated in the forward cargo compartment the Australian Transport Safety Bureau said in a written statement .
Our preliminary checks on this indicate that there was no corrosion anywhere near where this hole occurred in the aircraft Geoff Dixon Qantas CEO said in Sydney .
Video of the plane after it landed Friday showed a large hole where the leading edge of the wing attaches to the fuselage .
Watch footage from the plane .
The section of the fuselage separated at about 29,000 feet and the cabin began to rapidly decompress the safety agency said in the statement released Friday .
The crew brought the plane down to 10,000 feet and diverted the aircraft to Manila International Airport where it landed safely about 11:15 a.m. -LRB- 11:15 p.m ET Thursday -RRB- .
The airline said it received no reports of any injuries among the 346 passengers and 19 crew members .
Watch reaction of passengers to incident .
Dixon called the incident a hugely serious issue and one that investigators would sort out .
We ca n't speculate on what happened .
Oxygen masks were deployed during the emergency .
Passengers said their ears popped because of the plane 's rapid descent to a lower altitude .
There was an almighty crack one passenger said .
We dropped a bit in the air but other than that it was fine .
There was a big bang said another .
I knew there was a hole somewhere but I did n't know what was going on .
iReport.com : See photos of the nasty damage .
The Boeing 747-400 flight originated in London .
It had just taken off from Hong Kong for Melbourne Australia when it was forced to land .
A U.S. Transportation Security Administration official who asked not to be identified because his agency is not leading the probe into the incident said a preliminary investigation found no connection to terrorism .
The damage appears to be related to a mechanical issue based on examination of the aircraft on the ground the official said .
The official said a TSA representative based in Manila is assisting in the investigation .
The National Transportation Safety Board also is sending investigators and an NTSB spokesman said the agency also does not suspect terrorism .
