Charged for movies I never watched .
There a $ 24 charge for two movies on Keeley Hozjan hotel bill .
Movies that were never ordered or watched .
Although the hotel promises an investigation the charge shows up on Hozjan credit card only a day after checkout .
What gives ? .
Q : What can you do if a hotel is charging you for something you did use ? .
I stayed at the Liaison Capitol Hill in Washington recently .
When I received a bill under my door the morning of departure I noticed there was a balance of $ 24 for two movies both ordered on the same day one right after the other .
The problem is I never ordered any movies during my stay .
And what more my traveling companion and I were out to dinner at the time that these movies were allegedly ordered .
When we went to the front desk to ask that they review the security tapes for the entryway to prove we had left the hotel we were told that the security person was not available .
The front desk manager then said that her manager offered to take one of the movies off our bill to which we said Finally she offered to conduct an investigation once their security person came on duty .
We never heard from any of them .
When I looked at my credit card statement I saw that they posted the movie charge to my account the day after we disputed the bill .
After numerous calls to the hotel this issue still has been resolved .
Can you help ? .
Keeley Hozjan Seattle .
A : If you did order the movies your hotel should have removed the charges from your bill right away .
Not offered to investigate .
Not offered a 50 percent discount on something you did order .
A refund now .
I think the fact that you were willing to review the security tapes and that you had an alibi was a that the entertainment system might have billed you erroneously .
entertainment systems are big moneymakers for hotels .
Properties typically split the profits from movies with a third company which supplies the programming and technology .
They reluctant to remove any charges because it cost them .
The we solution is a solution at all .
It a .
It means either one party or both ca conclusively prove that they right .
So in an effort to recover some money one side offers to cut the bill .
The problem with that resolution is that one side either the hotel or the guest ends up paying for something they should .
And that unfair .
I ca believe they gave you the we line .
That another popular hotel tactic that meant to make the customers go away and quietly pay their bills .
There no way of knowing if the Liaison Capitol Hill intended to investigate your claim .
But the fact that the hotel charged your card the following day would lead me to believe that it just told you what you wanted to hear .
You could have handled this differently .
When you saw the charges you should have contacted the front desk immediately preferably in person .
Give yourself plenty of time .
Explain your situation calmly and rationally and if the hotel employee is being helpful ask to speak with a manager .
The Liaison Capitol Hill is an upscale property where a room ca be had for less than $ 200 a night .
A competent supervisor would remove the charges immediately .
Why endanger someone repeat business over a relatively minor amount ? .
If you were in a hurry to check out I would have committed your grievance to writing instead of calling the hotel .
Writing works far better when you have a formal complaint of this nature .
I recommend an email .
The naming convention for the Liaison is first initial last name all one word @ .
I contacted the Liaison parent company Affinia and it refunded the charges for both movies immediately .
