What 's new and evolving in England and Ireland CNN.com .
-LRB- Tribune Media Services -RRB- -- Jolly olde England and the Emerald Isle of Ireland continue to enchant and entice even with the pound whomping the dollar nearly two to one .
Here 's what to expect if you visit in 2008 .
England .
For longer visits to London you 'll save time and money getting around on the Tube -LRB- London 's underground -RRB- and city buses with an Oyster Card .
You buy this plastic transit card for a small fee and then enjoy discounted rides -- reloading for more credit as necessary .
The Heathrow Express train connecting London 's Paddington Station with Heathrow Airport is now the most expensive rail journey per mile in Britain .
Save money by riding the Tube or using the regular train .
Those going to the Continent -LRB- under the English Channel -RRB- on the Eurostar bullet train will enjoy an even faster trip on a faster track .
The train now departs from London 's St. Pancras International Station -LRB- no longer the Waterloo Station -RRB- .
The London Transport Museum reopened in November .
Whether you 're cursing or marveling at the buses and Tube this fascinating history of London 's public transportation system is a delight .
The British Museum 's Reading Room normally free and open to the quiet public will instead host special exhibitions -LRB- on Chinese Terracotta Warriors through early April and Roman Emperor Hadrian from late July through October -RRB- requiring a separate entry fee .
The vast museum itself remains free .
The British Library also free will undergo an extensive reorganization in 2008 .
In particular one of the original Magna Carta documents and the only existing medieval manuscript of Beowulf will be off display for much of the year .
There will be no organ recitals at St. Paul 's Cathedral in 2008 or 2009 as its organ will be under restoration .
Public places in England and the rest of Great Britain are now smoke-free including hotels B & B s restaurants and even pubs .
Expect places that sell food to be non-smoking indoors with smokers occupying outdoor patios and doorways .
Save money on local calls by picking up an inexpensive English mobile phone -LRB- which can be as low as 20 pounds for a phone complete with a SIM card and some minutes -RRB- particularly if you 're staying at B & B s which rarely have in-room phones .
Bath 's new Thermae Bath Spa -- which finally opened after years of delays -- is already popular with locals and tourists alike .
Consider an evening visit -LRB- last entry is 7:45 p.m. -RRB- when the crowds thin out and the town twinkles from the rooftop pool deck .
Stonehenge long famous as a highway drive-by sight is planning a major gradual renovation over the next several years .
The plans are to divert the busy road farther from the site and build a new low-profile visitors center to recapture the stone circle 's alone-in-a-field aura .
Blenheim Palace has a new multimedia exhibit called the Untold Story -- 300 years of history told by a maid named Grace Ridley .
While interesting the palace 's Churchill exhibit should remain your first priority .
Stratford-upon-Avon is sharing the limelight with another Stratford -LRB- an area just outside of London by the same name -RRB- which is the location of the 2012 Olympics .
-LRB- To avoid confusion use Stratford-upon-Avon 's full name when buying train tickets -RRB- .
In Stratford-upon-Avon the Royal Shakespeare Company has closed its Globe and Swan theaters for renovation and is using the Courtyard Theater as its main stage .
The thrust-design Courtyard Theater is the prototype for the in-the-works theaters scheduled to reopen in 2010 .
Ireland and Northern Ireland .
There 's a new visitors center at the Cliffs of Moher .
After years of easy access to the cliffs numerous fatal accidents -LRB- and suicides -RRB- prompted the hiring of rangers whose main purpose is to keep people from getting too close to the cliff edge .
The upside : They lead guided tours several times a day in the summer .
In Galway the Siamsa folk theater which featured Irish music singing and dancing -- including the step dancing popularized by Riverdance -- will be closed in 2008 -LRB- and may not reopen after that -RRB- .
Sadly in Kilronan on Inishmore Island the Ragus Irish song and dance group is also no longer performing .
The British Army has finally pulled out of Northern Ireland after 38 years mired in the Troubles which is a healthy sign that the region 's worst days are in the past and tourism will no longer be such a tough sell in Ulster .
As if to celebrate Belfast has opened a 196-foot-high Ferris wheel similar to the London Eye .
It will spin crowds of tourists -LRB- paying $ 12 for the 15-minute trip -RRB- throughout 2008 .
A visit to England and Ireland in 2008 will be expensive but an ever-evolving lineup of sights is keeping these two countries on the must-see list for travelers .
E-mail to a friend .
