Interview with Samak Sundaravej .
BANGKOK Thailand CNN Thailand new Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej is the first to be democratically elected since the nation bloodless coup in 2006 .
A veteran politician and former governor of Bangkok Samak is accused of being a nominee of friend and former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra .
As he prepares to take office he joins Talk Asia Dan Rivers to discuss his allegiance to his ousted predecessor corruption and his alleged role in the Thammasat massacre of 1976 .
BLOCK A .
Taking power at a special ceremony Thailand new prime minister receives an endorsement from the King .
He gives thanks to the monarch then issues a firm message to critics : I want to tell those who have held me in contempt saying in writing and in vilifying speech that I am inept and I do know anything to give me time to do this job .
His election as prime minister comes at a pivotal time for democracy in Thailand .
In 2006 the military launched a bloodless coup against the government of billionaire Thaksin Shinawatra .
The junta accused Thaksin of corruption and dissolved Thailand parliament .
Samak a Thaksin loyalist lost his senate seat .
The outspoken veteran politician continued a second career as a celebrity chef .
But Samak soon returned to politics .
His People Power Party made a strong showing in December elections .
It was formed after Thaksin own Thai Rak Thai party was banned but it shares many of the same policies and people .
Samak has vowed to turn the clock back to before the last coup .
We meet at his residence in Bangkok .
DR : Prime Minister Kun Samak thank you very much for talking to Talk Asia .
You came to power really on the back many would say of Thaksin Shinawatra the exiled former prime minister who was exiled in the coup a year and a half ago .
You made no .
You have really hidden your allegiance to him .
Explain now how you intend to go forward .
Will Thaksin play a role in your government ? .
SS : He ran the country for five years very successfully and then there is a coup .
It ok .
They say a coup is a coup .
And then they want to destroy Thaksin it ok it up to them .
But he says that the party is killed .
He just asked me is it possible if you set up a party and bring the leftover MPs to enroll in the party ? .
And then .
DR : So Thaksin asked you to set up your People Power Party ? .
SS : He said is it possible or not ? .
I say I can do because I lost my opportunity too .
I ran as a senate five months so the coup group they just kicked me out .
DR : What kind of role will Thaksin play now that you are in power ? .
SS : Oh he the owner of the former party .
And then he might get some support by giving ideas to this or that .
Five years such a success so why not if he gives some advice ? .
DR : So you will take advice from Thaksin ? .
SS : Not I myself but the one who do the especially on the economic group so they might consult so I think there nothing wrong with this .
DR : Because people say you merely a puppet some people have said of Thaksin .
SS : You may say anybody is a puppet of anybody .
DR : So you deny that you a puppet ? .
SS : No I am myself .
I the leader of the party .
I run this country it me I have my own thinking .
DR : Not Thaksin ? .
SS : Not Thaksin .
DR : Let talk about the cabinet lineup .
One of the key posts in the cabinet is defense minister .
Obviously with the history of so many coups in Thailand whoever has the defense minister portfolio effectively controls the army .
There been speculation you will have the defense minister post as well as being prime minister .
Is that going to be the case ? .
SS : Yeah well I intend to do that because in the olden days there an argument always between the military and the government .
And the military serves the monarch we serve the monarch .
An argument that happen will not the King will not feel quite so good if any argument always occur .
So we need a neutral by this time .
So now we have a good a good of the army .
DR : How can you guarantee there going to be no more coups in Thailand ? .
SS : I can not guarantee .
Last time when they staged a coup there no reason .
Rebel without a cause .
DR : Well the reason they gave was that Thaksin was hugely corrupt .
SS : Sixteen months it does prove .
Not a single case .
They set up a committee and see to it and until now just two cases go to the prosecutor not to the court yet .
DR : Central to the charges against Thaksin his sale of a controlling stake in telecommunications giant Shin Corporation to a Singaporean company .
Thaksin changed financial rules just days before the sale allowing foreign entities to own up to 49 percent in telecoms firms from 25 percent previously .
Critics accused him of forgoing national interests to reap personal benefits .
His wife Pojamarn Shinawatra also faces a series of graft charges and is accused of concealing millions of dollars in stock market shares .
She returned to Thailand earlier this month to appear at court for the first charge .
At the heart of the case is this plot of land it may look like a wildlife sanctuary but this is in fact prime real estate on the edge of Bangkok .
Pojamarn Shinawatra bought this from a government institution in 2003 while her husband was prime minister .
Her critics say she got a huge discount paying only one third of the initial evaluation .
If convicted the Shinawatras could face more than 10 years in prison .
They both deny the charges .
DR : Do you think he guilty ? .
SS : Oh anyone can do something guilty if anyone can prove but for me not a friend not the one who know each other DR : You do think he guilty ? .
SS : I do think that anyone may do something wrong that does think that that is wrong .
Such is the first case he let his wife to buy in the bidding so they say this is wrong so this case must go to the court .
This is a good example .
So ask Thaksin or ask his wife they never think that they committed anything wrong .
DR : Well I asking you .
Do you think Thaksin was corrupt ? .
SS : Oh .
For me why must he ? .
But if he do something and the business that he has done for his friend for his colleague and it create some better income than others .
Put it this way corrupt or not corrupt huh in the olden days when anyone invests in this country you can hold the share only 25 percent for the rest must be nominee or any kind of thing .
But he decide to change from 25 to 49 percent .
Now when he made a change of this from 25 to 49 and then he can sell his share it costs 73 billion and then pay no tax because by law pay no tax .
This is corrupt or not ? .
DR : Well I asking you .
Do you think he corrupt ? .
SS : Somebody say it corrupt but for me I say no this is by law .
This is he might take this opportunity .
It must be his wisdom that he can do the trade .
DR : But should prime ministers be allowed to make money ? .
Should they be concentrating on the job of prime minister ? .
SS : For me for me I have nothing kind of that .
But for him it his business .
He do the business and he want to get rid of the share that he hold .
To be or not be right or wrong is up to him .
DR : Well is it right or wrong ? .
SS : I think it right because it draw intention for the investor to come that you can have 49 percent you have a proxy only 2 so you can run the company .
DR : Will Thaksin come back ? .
And if so when ? .
SS : It up to him up to the case .
His wife just mentioned to the court that he will come in May .
So the court do agree .
He will come or not it up to him .
But one thing I must say is that he must come back to face the charge .
It not dangerous .
DR : How much damage was done do you think to Thailand by the coup ? .
SS : Oh I can not .
It does come by figures .
It comes by the feeling of the people .
The damage that come I not an expert in economy but they say that just from the grassroots to the top they also have problems .
Restaurants say the business 100 percent is going down to 50 percent .
They buying and selling everything .
DR : If the country was so damaged by the coup what will you do to those who led the coup ? .
Should they not be punished ? .
SS : No no no .
DR : Why not ? .
SS : Do believe me .
That we call a revenge a reprisal a retortion .
We have no need to do that .
They must feel ashamed by themselves that is much enough .
BLOCK B .
DR : October 1976 this grainy footage shows one of Thailand darkest episodes the Thammasat massacre .
Soldiers killed dozens of students during a frenzy of fervor and Samak was at the scene .
He was Deputy Interior Minister his enemies accused him of goading the .
The massacre triggered a military coup and remains an subject in Thailand .
DR : Some people are very critical of your past in Thailand some people have even said you got blood on your hands .
What would you say to that ? .
SS : Oh I deny the whole thing .
I have no concern on that business .
And I have nothing to do to deal with that at all .
I an outsider by that time .
And then the Governor of Bangkok he is the Secretary General of the Democratic Party and the Deputy .
So the chief of the group asked him to see so I go along with him .
That evening he talk to the chief of the group I talk to the military .
The guy asked me what do you think Kun Samak we close all the newspaper ? .
I said it impossible .
Next morning who will know who is the one who is a reform group who are they .
So next morning they make the first committee five .
One military four civilians just to open to back to normal for all the newspaper .
That was what I do .
DR : Would you like to take the opportunity now to condemn what happened in 1976 ? .
SS : Actually it a movement of some students .
They do like the government .
DR : But dozens of people maybe hundreds of people died .
SS : No just only one died .
There are students in the Thammasat University .
DR : The official death toll was 46 and many people say it was much higher than that .
SS : No .
For me no deaths one unlucky guy being beaten and being burned in Sanam Luang .
Only one guy by that day .
DR : So there was no massacre ? .
SS : No not at all but taking pictures students boys and girls lined up they say that is the death toll .
.
DR : People say that your very rhetoric inflamed the situation .
SS : What wrong to be the if it is ? .
The is with the King .
The is communist .
DR : So do you think Thailand was in danger of falling to communism in 1976 ? .
SS : Well a guy called Lomax he write a book the book is called Thailand : The War that is the War that will be .
And he says that this is a domino theory .
He says that there will be 10 dominoes around this area .
So if Cambodia will be Vietnam will be Laos will be and Thailand will be the number four domino .
And from Thailand it will be Burma it will be Malaysia Singapore .
Small islands like Singapore .
So many islands like Indonesia and later big islands like Australia and even two tiny islands down under .
Ten countries will be communist .
We are domino number four .
DR : Do you think it excusable to kill innocent students in the name of defending the country from communism ? .
SS : Oh who kill the students ? .
If the fighting between the military the military is to defend for the country .
Somebody tried to bring communism into our country it up to them .
The casualty you must go to check what had happened .
DR : In 1992 more bloodshed .
An estimated people took to the streets of Bangkok to protest against the appointment of a military coup leader as prime minister .
Unrest escalated A state of emergency was declared and troops opened fire on crowds .
Dozens of people were killed and thousands arrested .
Samak was deputy prime minister at the time .
The army eventually retreated ushering in a period of civilian rule but the event is forever known as Black May .
DR : Again protest against the military government again your name is linked to the bloodshed that followed .
What would you say to that ? .
SS : I was deputy prime minister for three times nobody mentioned anything .
When I resigned and I run as a governor of Bangkok oh it a murder with blood in hand you can not be governor .
So I bring the case to the court .
And when the vote come nobody kept over 1 million I got 1 million something why ? .
DR : But that does answer the question .
Were you involved in 1992 ? .
SS : No .
Even any time I have no involvement .
At any time .
At any time of .
DR : Your conscience is clear ? .
SS : If I do something wrong I can not come this far .
I think my hand is clean and then I can live with it .
The people of this country know me who I am so I am not afraid .
But why they put a stamp on me ? .
Because I do like the press .
I do like the media .
I think actually when they talk good to me they talk good to them .
When they put something slash out to me I just slash back to them .
When you punch me I punch back .
There is no written document that says by human feeling that the prime minister should be a good guy should talk soft .
DR : I mean are you a good guy ? .
How would you describe yourself ? .
SS : Somebody must describe me I can not describe myself .
But for me if I have something wrong I can not come this far .
But the hatred of some people yes but for me yeah I do hate them I just feel pity that they have an ill feeling to me .
BLOCK C .
DR : Indulging in a lifelong passion cooking .
Samak became a celebrity chef with his show Tasting while Grumbling in 2000 extolling the virtues of Thai cuisine and trips to the local market .
He immersed himself in the show after losing office during the 2006 coup but it currently since its broadcaster was taken over by Thailand previous government .
DR : You have a lot of passions in life not only politics .
Cooking is one of your great passions interests .
SS : Actually I have a normal life .
I started with a little bit difficulty family .
We can not say poor we can manage to earn but father mother have nine children I number seven .
DR : So your poor background to start with ? .
SS : Yeah poor background and by this way I have to select everyone This one do the cleaning this one do the washing I do the cooking at 7 years old .
That why I cook from that time on and I think it right .
And I think cooking is an art and I have done this until now .
So for the family first and then for my own family afterwards and then now .
Ten years ago when I was an MP they give one hour on Saturday evening just to talk politics .
So I spend about two years it a bore politics is a bore .
I said politics is a bore why not we talk about some cooking ? .
So I just start talking about cooking from that time on .
I have a book called Tasting while Grumbling .
DR : Tasting while grumbling ? .
SS : It about 28 good things to eat .
So it a good book .
DR : And you had a TV series .
SS : Cooking While Grumbling no Tasting While Grumbling .
DR : And will that program come back on air ? .
SS : Somebody says that as a prime minister I have time but you should not do such a thing like that .
I said No .
I checked the constitution already there no obstruction with that .
But I do something like this now with my house the camera would come and talk .
So I will talk about any kind of food of thing and you going to do cooking .
DR : Your image is very much a man of the people very very outspoken some would say acerbic .
Would you agree with that ? .
SS : I always say that a man who speaks from the mind you can go along with him .
DR : I want to ask you one last question because we running out of time .
What about the kind of central theme of much of the criticism against you is simply that you are not statesman material that there would be better leaders of Thailand than you ? .
For example Kun Abhisit the leader of the Democrat Party here .
How would you respond to people who say you simply not diplomatic enough to be prime minister ? .
SS : No .
No .
Why the ambassador came to see me ? .
Ten ambassadors came to see me I have no position then .
Ten came already now the American ambassador why ? .
The American embassy here must report who I am .
He can come to talk to me .
DR : And would you say that the people like you ? .
SS : The people one million vote for me .
Why ? .
Because they know who I am .
Until now why when I was the leader of PPP they say it because of Thaksin it might be for some reason but you can bring anyone to be the leader not me .
What will happen to the PPP ? .
So it a combination the best of everything that I have done .
What they have performed five years ago .
But it must be the quality of the leader like I who lead the party so who come this far ? .
So I was accepted by the people everywhere but not the media .
This is ok it up to you .
You do your duty I will do mine .
DR : So the country is safe with you ? .
SS : It must be and this is my opportunity .
Actually to run the country there are all the permanent secretaries of all the military they have done their job .
We are the one just to drive the engine .
Now we know how to do that .
But one good thing is that no corrupt .
For me if I corrupt I can not come this far .
If Thaksin did it he must go to the court and you must prove .
DR : What will you say will be your top priority in government ? .
SS : Just bring the country back to normal .
When they staged the coup United States turned back to us EC turned back to us China turned by the side Japan turned by the side .
So now when we have a government from election so they must turn back and then everything will come back to normal .
DR : Let finish I know you want to talk about your interest in the naval ships .
Tell us about that before .
SS : America has 130 ships like this 129 sank in the world war .
Only one left over to Thailand .
United States asked this for 10 years but my colleagues he says that it better to give back so the procession have done two months ago we brought it down to Hong Kong and put it in a dry dock and pull to San Francisco .
So you returning this ship to America .
Returning the ship and then they will keep the name Nakha keep the name .
Keep the garuda it a good omen .
DR : On that good omen I afraid we going to have to leave it .
Thank you very much for talking to us here on Talk Asia .
You watching CNN .
Join us next time .
