Powell beats world fastest man Bolt .
STOCKHOLM Sweden AP Asafa Powell took on the world fastest man with every intention of beating him to the finish line and Usain Bolt could not catch up in time .
Powell capitalized on Bolt weak start and edged the holder by of a second leading from start to finish in the 100 meters at the DN Galan meet on Tuesday .
Powell the former holder won their highly anticipated rematch in seconds .
Bolt who was slow out of the blocks nearly caught his fellow Jamaican at the finish line .
Third went to Norwegian Jaysuma Saidy Ndure in .
I was really happy with the race Powell said .
My goal was to win .
My start was quick and fast .
And the speed stayed with me through the finish .
I really looking forward to the Olympics .
The win was a measure of revenge for Powell after losing to his close friend Bolt at Jamaica Olympic Trials last month .
Bolt set the world record of in New York on May 31 breaking Powell mark of .
It was Powell third straight win at Olympic Stadium .
Last year he won in .
In 2006 he set the stadium record of .
I needed today win for my confidence Powell said .
That is most important in order to get really good times .
Bolt was somber .
I disappointed he said .
My start was not good enough .
That was the key tonight .
I was also disturbed by the false start .
I could not focus at 100 percent .
Earlier Dayron Robles missed his world record by just seconds winning the race in .
The Cuban who set the world record last month in Ostrava Czech Republic beat four Americans in the race .
David Oliver and Aries Merritt also made the podium .
For setting a new Olympic Stadium record Robles earned a a diamond worth $ .
Robles time is the fourth fastest in history tied with Colin Jackson of Britain .
Liu Xiang of China ran a and Dominique Arnold of the United States clocked in 2006 .
Yelena Isinbayeva and Meseret Defar of Ethiopia also set stadium records .
Isinbayeva cleared 15 feet 11 inches to win the women pole vault and her second diamond in Stockholm .
The Russian broke her world record in Rome last week with a effort .
It was a good competition but a little bit too cold when I tried at meters she said .
Defar missed fellow Ethiopian Tirunesh Dibaba world record by seconds winning the race in for another stadium record .
Dibaba set the world record in Oslo Norway last month .
Olympic champion Jeremy Wariner won his third straight race but failed to improve the stadium record he set last year .
The American eased up near the finish and crossed in .
It was off his meet record that earned him a diamond last year .
Running in nearly perfect conditions Wariner took the lead early in the race and was unchallenged the rest of the way .
I went for victory today he said .
It a good winning time .
Now I going home for tough training before the Olympics .
Chris Brown of the Bahamas finished second in and Ricardo Chambers of Jamaica third in .
Abubaker Kaki a from Sudan picked up the first diamond of the evening by winning the meters in .
He also got his named engraved on a large silver trophy the Dickson Trophy that was first contested in a mile race in 1895 .
It was my first outdoors ever Kaki said .
I tried to beat the world record but it very hard to beat .
Still I very happy with my performance .
Previous winners of the Dickson Trophy include British great Sebastian Coe the London Olympic 2012 chairman who watched the race from the stands as a guest of honor John Walker of New Zealand Filbert Bayi of Tanzania and Said Aouita of Morocco .
Saad Youssef Kamel of Bahrein finished second behind Kaki in and Yuriy Borzakovskiy of Russia third in .
Craig Mottram of Australia won the in nearly a second ahead of Isaac Songok of Kenya .
It was a good race Mottram said .
I did care much about the time .
I just arrived from Australia .
I was a bit unsure about my shape .
