Can T5 design conquer delays ? .
LONDON England CNN Its opening may have been an unmitigated disaster of canceled flights lost baggage and painful delays but the architects behind Heathrow Terminal 5 say they hope their $ billion colossus will eventually bring a different kind of drama to the traveling experience .
Their aim they say is to create a departure from the usual story of passengers shuffling down interminable corridors of dull light into windowless caverns of lines and disorder .
Mike Davies from Rogers Stirk Harbour + Partners the lead architect for T5 says : we have tried to create a high quality of passenger experience by bringing back a generosity of light space and air .
These may not have been the impressions of the terminal first customers many of whom spent the night sleeping on the building floor as technical problems left them stranded .
But the architects insist when it overcomes its teething problems Terminal 5 should make flying a much more pleasant experience .
The journey from Paddington rail station in the center of London to should take only 20 minutes .
And passengers arriving by bus or taxi pull up in a separate building cross flying bridges over a piazza of trees and benches and arrive into the towering space of the terminal .
As Davies says this is a dramatic entry into what is clearly a very very large space .
The terminal is almost 400 meters long and 170 meters deep .
But unlike Stansted airport another London airport of a similar depth there are no internal columns .
Ten percent of the roof and every wall let natural light pour in .
We worked hard to make it feel as light filled as possible says Davies .
British Airways the sole occupant of Heathrow Terminal Five has installed 96 kiosks the majority to reduce lines .
The baggage system which broke down on the opening day is state of the art says BA .
Once through security there more drama as passengers emerge onto a balcony .
Look behind and you see Windsor Castle and in front there are views over the runways .
As Davies says you do emerge into a corridor looking for signs .
Instead you can see your plane and intuitively understand how the whole system operates .
There also a good view of the shops and restaurants .
The retail focus here is with the likes of Paul Smith and Harrods as well as the standard array of high street names .
Dining is also at the fine end .
British celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay has a restaurant Plane Food with its own cocktail bar and views across the runway .
The space uses a common lounge concept which means passengers can walk from shop to shop gate to gate across one giant space .
From its new terminal BA offers the largest lounge complex in the world with six lounge options as well as a spa .
Once again the key feature here is space and spectacular views across the building and runways .
Another unexpected feature is a series of art installations .
In departures a towering sculpture of neon lights in Chinese characters has been commissioned to coincide with an exhibition of Chinese design at London V & A museum .
And outside two pieces by artists Langlands & Bell bookend the pedestrian plaza .
For Davies T5 is not just a space ; it is also a piece of a city under one great roof .
And being vertically not horizontally spread as most other airports it is also a skyscraper of a terminal .
But Davies final analogy is a giant market hall that with no internal columns can be adapted to meet the airport changing needs .
Whether there are changes to security procedures or immigration or to the airline products and facilities the one thing we can be sure of is that in 10 years time it will not be the same says Davies .
And even though Terminal 5 does bring extra runway capacity to Heathrow it is eventually expected to relieve some of the congestion and hassle that the airport has become renowned for .
For the growth of Heathrow this provides the shuffle space for them to start improving the rest of the airport says Davies .
