Crews gain on California fires .
PARADISE California AP Moist air and calmer winds helped firefighters make progress Saturday on a deadly wildfire in the Sierra Nevada foothills the latest hot spot in an unprecedented fire season that has made much of California a disaster area .
Thousands of people evacuated from their homes twice during the last month began returning to Paradise for the first time since Tuesday .
About 300 homes remained threatened in and around the town down from homes on Friday while officials said the fire was 55 percent contained .
For the first time we really turned the corner said Kim Sone a spokeswoman for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Prevention .
There more resources staffing the fire and the weather has changed .
We getting good relative humidity and the winds are subsiding .
An evacuation order remained in effect for the nearby town of Concow where 50 homes were razed and one person was apparently killed this week after flames jumped a containment line .
The person charred remains were found Friday in a home .
The person has been identified and a cause of death has been determined .
Watch how close the fire got to some homes .
The Butte County blaze is one of hundreds of wildfires that have blackened nearly square miles and destroyed about 100 homes across California since a rare lightning storm ignited most of them three weeks ago .
Officials say more fires have been burning at one time this year than during any other period in recorded California history .
This is truly a national disaster .
The magnitude is incredible said Daniel Berlant a state fire agency spokesman .
Forest Service spokesman Jason Kirchner said firefighters have spent hundreds of millions of dollars fighting the blazes and that does include the economic cost to businesses tourism and agriculture or the impact on air and water quality .
Map .
Officials warn the state could suffer a lot more because fire danger is typically highest in Southern California in the fall when hot dry winds could scour hillsides desiccated by a drought .
The ground is set for some really horrific events bigger than we seen so far Max Mortiz of the University of California Center for Fire Research & Outreach .
The conditions show a need for more research into the patterns of weather wind and geography that could show where fires are likely to flare into infernos he added .
About firefighters from 41 states and Puerto Rico were fighting more than 320 active fires around the state and more were on the way from Mexico Canada Australia and New Zealand .
Gov Arnold Schwarzenegger has ordered National Guard troops to join the fire crews on the ground for the first time in more than 30 years .
In Paradise where a separate blaze destroyed more than 70 homes last month residents returning Saturday found a town that did live up to its name .
Fine ash sifted from the sky coating homes and vehicles with a soft gray shroud .
smoke from the collection of fires that have blackened nearly 78 square miles choked the air .
Many returning residents wore dust masks .
Bob May 69 hosed the ash off his driveway happy to be home to take care of the two cats he and his wife left behind when they fled to their daughter house across town Tuesday .
Even as they lifted the evacuation order for Paradise authorities prevented residents of the immediate Concow area from returning home .
It frustrating .
I a little angry Roseville resident Rick Harrison said has he sipped beer while waiting with his wife and to check on their property .
Firefighters had told them their houses had been destroyed .
Elsewhere in California state transportation officials said they expect to reopen coastal Highway 1 on Sunday morning three weeks after it was closed as a massive wildfire swept through the tourist town of Big Sur .
Fire officials shifted mandatory evacuation areas there Saturday .
The fire was about 46 percent contained after burning nearly acres and destroying 26 homes .
Farther south a separate blaze in the Los Padres National Forest near Santa Barbara that prompted mass evacuations last weekend was 85 percent contained after blackening more than 15 square miles .
Evacuation orders for homes along the southern flank of the fire were canceled Saturday morning though about 85 homes higher up surrounding hillsides remained under evacuation .
In far Northern California the Trinity County Sheriff Department ordered evacuations in the mountains east of Redding where the remoteness of the area initially made the wildfires there less of an urgent priority .
The fires threatened the Junction City and French Gulch areas along Highway 299 fire officials said .
National Guard troops arrived there Friday for final training before joining other fire crews on Monday .
A letup in the wind aided firefighters in eastern Washington state battling a wildfire that erupted Thursday in a heavily wooded part of the Spokane Valley .
It destroyed at least 13 houses and forced 200 residents to evacuate .
No injuries have been reported .
The suburban Spokane fire which grew to nearly 2 square miles was caused by embers from a small backyard fire authorities said Saturday night .
