Coroner : Sean Levert died of natural causes CNN.com .
CLEVELAND Ohio -LRB- AP -RRB- -- The R & B singer Sean Levert who died at age 39 after falling ill in jail suffered from a variety of ailments and died of natural causes the county coroner ruled Thursday .
The 39-year-old Levert a member of the 1980s R & B trio LeVert and son of lead O'Jays singer Eddie Levert died March 31 at a hospital after he was taken from the Cuyahoga County jail .
He was serving a 22-month sentence for failure to pay child support .
Levert 's family had questioned officials account that Levert had been acting strangely and was restrained before he fell ill. .
But in his ruling County Coroner Frank Miller ruled out foul play or trauma .
Patti Webster Levert 's publicist did not return a call seeking comment on the coroner 's findings .
Miller said Levert died from complications of sarcoidosis an inflammatory lung disease that produces tiny lumps of cells in body 's organs .
The coroner said Levert also suffered from other conditions including cardiovascular disease and withdrawal from alprazolam -- a drug used to treat anxiety disorders and panic attacks .
After Levert died jail warden Kevin McDonough said he had been sick and guards were watching him because he had been acting strangely .
When he started pounding on his cell door guards strapped him in a restraint chair McDonough said .
Levert 's breathing became shallow and he was taken to the hospital .
Levert 's family questioned McDonough 's account and wanted the FBI to investigate .
Levert 's cousin Michael Gibson said Levert never had any outburst such as the type described by McDonough .
FBI spokesman Scott Wilson said in April that agents were willing to meet with Levert 's family .
Wilson said Thursday that the FBI was never contacted by the family .
Messages seeking comment from Sean Levert 's publicist Patti Webster were not returned .
Levert and his brother Gerald formed LeVert in the 1980s with childhood friend Marc Gordon .
Their hits included Baby I 'm Ready -LRB- Pop Pop Pop Pop -RRB- Goes My Mind and Casanova .
His brother died in 2006 at age 40 of an accidental mix of prescription and over-the-counter drugs .
Sean Levert who was trying to start the group LeVert again had pleaded guilty in March to six counts of failure to pay child support .
He was accused of failure to pay $ 89,025 to children ages 11 15 and 17 .
He had pleaded guilty in 1995 to drug abuse and was placed on probation and required to get treatment .
