Cech signs new five-year deal at Chelsea CNN.com .
LONDON England -LRB- AP -RRB- -- Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech has signed a new five-year contract to keep him at the club until 2013 .
The Czech Republic international agreed to the deal last week and it was announced when the Blues arrived in Guangzhou China at the start of its offseason tour of Asia on Monday .
I am very happy to have renewed my contract with them Cech said .
Chelsea has grown in my heart not just because of my teammates and all the people that work for the club but also because of their fantastic fans .
The 26-year-old Cech has made 115 appearances for Chelsea since joining from French club Rennes in 2004 .
Cech won consecutive Premier League titles in his first two seasons but he still wears head protection during matches after fracturing his skull at Reading in 2006 .
He was also sidelined several times with injuries last season as Chelsea finished runner-up in the Premier League Champions League and League Cup .
I have to say I can not wait for the new season to start Cech said .
I am confident that it will be a very successful season for all of us .
New Chelsea coach Luiz Felipe Scolari who took charge earlier this month is pleased to have secured Cech on a long-term deal .
He is the best goalkeeper in the world so I am very pleased that he will remain with me at Chelsea Scolari said .
Cech was blamed after the Czech Republic 's exit from the European Championship last month .
The Czechs blew a two-goal lead against Turkey in their last group match by conceding three goals in the final 15 minutes .
Cech dropped a simple cross in the 87th minute to allow Turkey to level at 2-2 before letting in another goal .
French club Paris St Germain announced on Monday that they had signed Chelsea 's former French international midfielder Claud Makelele .
PSG revealed on their Web site that the player would be presented at a press conference later in the day after the two clubs had settled terms over the weekend .
Makelele moved to Chelsea from Real Madrid in 2003 and won two Premier League titles with the London side who are reported to have freed him from the final year of his contract .
Makelele will join Ludovic Giuly from AS Roma as one of PSG 's big name summer captures .
They have also brought in Guillaume Hoarau from Le Havre and Stephane Sessegnon from Le Mans .
