Medicine man says he can cure AIDS .
ABUJA Nigeria CNN The small room captured the smells from the wild assortment of herbs barks and powders scattered in bags at the feet of the local medicine man .
Using the little available light Baba Chukuri mixed together half of water several crushed roots and passed it to a woman who had come to him for medical treatment .
She drank the mixture and cringed at the bitter taste .
Baba Chukuri is one of many traditional healers across Nigeria offering treatments to hundreds of people daily for a variety of illnesses .
Many of these illnesses include scientifically incurable diseases like AIDS .
My grandfather was a hunter he explains we used to collect herbs together and he would show me how to make the recipes .
There is no scientific basis to Chukuri claims but speaking in his Hausa language he explained how he charges less money than hospitals so local people can afford him .
But also people trust me because they see my medicine works he says .
Seventy percent of Nigeria population live on less than a dollar a day forcing many people to come to local healers like Chukuri for affordable treatment .
But with the second highest number of AIDS cases in the world bogus cures for diseases like AIDS are also big business in Nigeria .
However Nigeria Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development or NIPRD are now testing Chukuri and other healers claims .
Dr Yemi Kunle from NIPRD department of Traditional Medicine believes traditional healers can become allies in the fight against AIDS and other diseases .
They work with a variety of medicinal plants and these plants serve as leads when we want to develop new products in orthodox medicine the young doctor explains .
Dr Kunle and NIPRD are testing hundreds of roots and herbs used in traditional medicine from across Nigeria .
NIPRD have developed a sickle cell treatment NICOSAN in 2000 and earlier this year released a treatment for diabetes .
In their modern labs and herbal gardens they are now working on a variety of treatments for tuberculosis malaria and immune boosters against AIDS .
On HIV we screened over 100 medicinal plants out of which 10 12 have seen a great deal of activity as agent explained Dr Uford Inyang NIPRD jovial Director General .
Inyang believes the global herbal market to be worth up to $ 5 billion .
If any of the treatments are found to work the local healers can receive up to 10 percent of the profits in royalties .
None of Chukuri treatments have yet been scientifically proven to work .
But claiming over a hundred year of healing tradition in his family scientists hope the elderly man and his experience will help lead them through the thousands of possible herbal varieties in Nigeria to a possible cure .
