Make your home healthier in five easy steps CNN.com .
You may think your home is safe but there may be toxins in your water linens and even your deck .
There are several simple steps you can take to make your kitchen living spaces playroom and backyard healthier for you and your family .
Here 's what to do : .
IN THE KITCHEN .
Potential danger : Nonstick cookware .
The scoop : Pans that let cookies slide off easily and make cleanup a cinch contain perfluorochemicals -LRB- or PFCs -RRB- which have been shown to cause cancer hormone disruption and hypothyroidism in animals .
In humans they 've been linked to a decreased ability to fight infection as well as low birth weight in babies whose mothers were exposed to them during pregnancy .
PFCs are found in the linings of fast-food packaging and most microwave-popcorn bags to keep grease from soaking through -LRB- as well as in some furniture and carpeting -RRB- .
Healthy-home fixes : It 's not clear whether humans are at risk from day-to-day exposure but environmental health experts recommend these commonsense precautions : .
& # 8226 ; Turn down the heat ! .
Do n't preheat an empty pan and keep burners on medium while cooking .
It 's when nonstick pans get too hot that they emit potentially dangerous fumes says pediatrician Alan Greene M.D author of Raising Baby Green .
& # 8226 ; Replace flaky peeling pans when they start to go .
Switch to old-fashioned stainless steel or cast iron or try one of the new PFC-free nonstick pans on the market .
& # 8226 ; Take your takeout out of the containers and serve it on plates .
& # 8226 ; Pop popcorn on the stove or use an air popper .
IN THE KITCHEN .
Potential danger : Pollutants in tap water .
The scoop : Here 's something you can worry less about .
Tap water is more regulated than bottled water says Dr. Paulson .
However it can vary greatly from region to region .
An analysis of tap-water data from 19 cities by the Natural Resources Defense Council -LRB- NRDC -RRB- for instance revealed elevated levels of lead arsenic and other hazardous chemicals .
Healthy-home fixes : .
& # 8226 ; Find out what 's in your water .
Your community water department is required by the Environmental Protection Agency -LRB- EPA -RRB- to regularly review the makeup of local water supplies and publish those results .
If you do n't get a report in the mail once or twice a year call and ask for one .
For a guide to understanding water-safety facts and figures go to safe-drinking-water .
org .
& # 8226 ; Test your own H2O with a simple kit from Everpure -LRB- $ 85 ; everpure.com -RRB- .
After sending in a sample of your water you 'll receive detailed results plus the best ways to filter out any impurities that the test turned up .
& # 8226 ; And then use a filter .
Many contaminants can be removed with a simple activated-carbon one says Anne Steinemann director of The Water Center at the University of Washington in Seattle .
These are the relatively inexpensive filters that attach at the faucet or below the sink .
Parenting.com : Great greenware for eating and drinking .
However there are some water contaminants -LRB- percholate a by-product of rocket fuel for example -RRB- that may require a reverse-osmosis filter .
These under-sink units are expensive and waste some water in order to clean it but they may be worth it if you live in an area with heavily contaminated H2O .
Whatever type of filter you choose look for one labeled as meeting NSF\/ANSI Standard 53 which means that the manufacturer 's claims have been verified .
You can find a more detailed explanation of water-filter options at waterfiltercomparisons.net .
IN THE FAMILY ROOM AND BEDROOMS .
Potential danger : Chemical flame retardants in bedding and furniture .
The scoop : Tons of household products contain chemicals called PBDEs which slow the rate at which something burns .
The problem is PBDEs have been shown to interfere with a child 's developing nervous system causing problems with memory and attention .
What 's more they have widely contaminated the environment and even our bodies .
Although there 's still a scarcity of data regarding the danger to humans several states are concerned enough to have banned the production and sale of certain PBDEs .
Healthy-home fixes : .
& # 8226 ; Keep your house as dust-free as possible .
-LRB- Yes not easy for a busy family ! -RRB- .
PBDEs like to attach to dust particles says Sarah Janssen M.D a science fellow at the NRDC in San Francisco .
And kids are especially likely to be exposed because they spend so much time on the floor and put things in their mouths .
& # 8226 ; Make small changes now .
No need to chuck all the flame-retardant items in your house but do consider replacing some .
Start with your children 's bedrooms since kids spend so much time in there and their faces are close to their bedding all night Greene says .
When you buy new bedding switch to the organic-cotton kind -LRB- organic fibers are never treated with PBDEs so opting for organic sheets and pillowcases is one way to make sure you avoid them -RRB- .
If you 're ready to replace mattresses -LRB- including crib mattresses -RRB- consider looking for ones that meet flame-retardant standards without using chemicals .
Also toss old egg crate foam mattress pads since they 're coated with flame retardants .
A list of companies that make PBDE-free mattresses and bedding can be found at ewg.org/pbdefree .
& # 8226 ; Make bigger changes later .
When it comes time to buy new furniture many experts feel it 's worth a little extra effort to find PBDE-free options .
Most products are n't labeled as such so you 'll have to ask questions at the store -LRB- or even call the manufacturer -RRB- to find out whether or not an item contains PBDEs .
As a general rule pieces made of natural fibers such as cotton wool and hemp do n't catch fire easily or burn quickly and so are less likely to be treated .
Ikea has stopped using PBDEs in its products ; other furniture manufacturers are catching on to the concerns about fire retardants .
For more information go to cleanproduction.org/safer/about.php .
IN THE PLAYROOM .
Potential danger : Lead in toys .
The scoop : You no doubt heard last year that hundreds of thousands of popular toys including many based on characters from kid favorites like Dora the Explorer and Thomas the Tank Engine were found to contain lead paint -- a dangerous neurotoxin that can hinder brain development and cause learning and behavioral problems -LRB- and which was banned by the government from house paint in 1978 -RRB- .
The toys were recalled forcing parents to stealthily toss them in the dark of night -LRB- or return them to the company -RRB- .
Healthy-home fixes : There 's really no way to tell if a toy has lead .
-LRB- DIY tests are n't accurate say most experts -RRB- .
Parenting.com : How to take recalled toys away .
Keep an eye out for toy recalls related to lead paint .
You can sign up for e-mail alerts at recalls .
gov and you can find an up-to-date listing of recalled toys here .
& # 8226 ; Find out what 's in your kids toys at healthytoys.org which lets you sort by specific toy brand or type .
& # 8226 ; Know your child 's lead levels .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention -LRB- CDC -RRB- and the American Academy of Pediatrics both recommend that kids be tested for lead at ages 1 and even 2 if your pediatrician thinks it 's necessary based on factors like lead levels in your community .
Although results under ten micrograms per deciliter are considered normal based on new research you should pay attention to blood levels as low as two and find out how the lead exposure is happening says Dr. Greene .
& # 8226 ; Get the lead out .
Some states and cities have rules for dealing with household lead paint .
To find local contacts go to epa .
gov\/lead or call 800-424-LEAD .
IN THE BACK YARD .
Potential danger : Arsenic-treated wood decks and play sets .
The scoop : It 's hard to fathom but for decades arsenic was added to outdoor wood as a preservative .
After evidence emerged that it could cause cancer in humans the EPA banned the manufacture and sale of arsenic-treated wood for most uses .
However wood decks and kids play sets built before 2004 usually contain arsenic .
So if you 've got any wood in your yard that 's more than four years old you can take some simple precautions to protect your kids who can ingest arsenic when they touch the wood or the soil underneath it and then put their hands in their mouths .
-LRB- If you want to know for sure whether wood in your back yard contains arsenic you can buy a simple but reliable test kit priced from $ 25 to $ 40 at ewg.org -RRB- .
Healthy-home fixes : .
& # 8226 ; Have your kids scrub up as soon as they come inside .
One study showed that washing with soap and water removes arsenic from hands and greatly reduces risk says Dr. Greene .
Parenting.com : Shortcuts to keeping children clean .
& # 8226 ; Do n't have your wood structures professionally cleaned with pressurized water .
The force of the water can release arsenic from the wood .
Parenting.com : Five ways to speed through cleaning .
& # 8226 ; If you remove the deck or play set do n't burn it or you 'll release arsenic into the air .
& # 8226 ; Reseal outdoor wood at least once a year with latex paint or polyurethane recommends the Environmental Working Group a nonprofit organization devoted to reducing levels of harmful chemicals in the environment .
You can do this yourself or hire a pro but either way you 'll be taking just one more important step toward making your home as healthy as it can be .
