Barnstorming the San Diego coastline .
Coastal Living Goggles check .
Helmet check .
Headset check .
Bronco I ready for takeoff .
The engine rumbles the propeller spins and the faint smell of fuel rises around me .
I not piloting this biplane ; that honor goes to Chuck Bronco Buckley a retired Navy commander .
I just along for the ride an unforgettable adrenaline rush over the San Diego coastline .
Our carefully restored aircraft a 1920s Travel Air biplane thrills passengers with a flight back in time .
I joyriding with Barnstorming Adventures a Carlsbad California tour company operating from the Palomar Airport .
They do provide simply nostalgic trips I soon to learn .
More like experiences .
Our shiny red machine zigzags across the airfield and finally makes a run down the strip .
I listen in as my pilot who is sitting behind me radios the tower for permission to take off .
Next to the fact that all the pilots have nicknames the coolest feature of this ride is my communication with the pilot and control .
We blast into the sky over a glorious field of rainbow stripes .
The Flower Fields at the Carlsbad Ranch explode every spring with 50 acres of blooms combed across rolling hills .
It quite a spectacle viewing them on land but from a bird eye view well that is one trippy sight .
Soon we are cruising south toward San Diego .
From feet above sea level the coast becomes a work of art .
Wavy brown seaweed creates hypnotic patterns under the translucent sea and rows of breaking waves leave long wispy wakes on the ocean surface .
Colorful lobster buoys dot the water like a masterpiece .
The beauty of flying in an open cockpit is that there nothing except for some wood and a lot of air between me and the seascape below .
With the wind blowing wildly around me the sun radiant heat hitting my face and the taste of clean ocean air it almost sensory overload .
We fly over the sands of South Carlsbad State Beach .
In early winter gray whales can be spotted migrating south .
One sight guaranteed any time of year however is the parade of mansions teetering along the edges of high sand bluffs .
Bronco buzzes past Encinitas a beach town lined with taco stands juice bars and markets selling tiki paraphernalia .
On the ground yellow road signs warn cars of surfers crossing .
From the sky the wave riders look like seals loitering in the waves off Swami Beach a famous surf break named for a nearby yoga meditation retreat .
We breeze over Torrey Pines State Reserve a scraggy piece of land contrasting dramatically with the famous manicured golf course also named for the rare tree .
This is a little reminder of what California looked like before bulldozers arrived Bronco voice explains in my headset .
Seeing the world from this vantage point is like peering into a seaside diorama .
Kayaks off La Jolla coast appear as red slivers in the sea while sunbathing sea lions resemble miniature logs .
Parasailers float like bubbles beneath us and I squint to look closer as we pass over Black Beach .
Do you want to take the controls ? .
Bronco asks .
Uh no I reply .
Unless you want to end up in the ocean .
But I still game for excitement and ask him to try some aeronautical tricks he mentioned earlier during the ride .
It unclear exactly what we doing next but my heart is in my throat the horizon is spinning and I screaming like a baby a crazily happy one .
Finally we do a turn over San Diego Pacific Beach and head back home .
Passengers who take the sunset flight can look for a green flash as the sun dips into the sea .
Sometimes we do a rapid climb into the sky and see a second sunset Bronco radios .
The landing is soft and easy and we sputter to the hangar .
People always get off the plane happy and smiling Bronco says .
He right .
I feel lighter fresher more carefree .
And as I walk back to the hangar I ca wipe the grin off my face .
Above It All .
In addition to biplanes Barnstorming Adventures 800\/759 offers aerobatic rides in a WWII plane .
Or thrillseekers can play out a dogfight in two Varga planes .
Biplane flights start at $ 199 for one or two people ; and dogfight flights cost more .
The company Sunset Special Fly\/Dine package for two $ 569 includes a sunset flight followed by a meal at the nearby Four Seasons Aviara Vivace restaurant .
Rooms at the Four Seasons Resort Aviara in Carlsbad start at $ 405 per night discount packages sometimes available ; call 760\/603 .
More places to soar above the sea to a friend .
