Study suggests Zoloft Lexapro tops for treating depression .
All antidepressant drugs are not created equal according to the authors of one of the few studies that have ever systematically analyzed and compared new generation medicines for treating depression .
In the analysis of 12 drugs two came out on top as the most effective and best tolerated as treatments : sertraline Zoloft and escitalopram Lexapro .
Venlafaxine Effexor and mirtazapine Remeron rounded out the top four for effectiveness but venlafaxine was also among the four drugs patients were most likely to quit taking because of side effects .
Reboxetine Edronax was less effective than the rest .
While psychiatrists treating depressed patients every day have had a sense of which medications are best the current study nails it says Sagar Parikh of the University of Toronto .
Parikh who wrote a comment accompanying the study that is published in the current issue of The Lancet says the findings have enormous implications because for the first time they offer doctors an unbiased way to recommend treatment .
And he adds they give patients a gold standard of reliable information especially since the study authors plan to make their findings available free on the Web .
Not so fast says Gerald Gartlehner who coauthored a review of the benefits and risks of the same 12 drugs published last November in the Annals of Internal Medicine .
He and his colleagues concluded based on their review done while Gartlehner was at the Practice Center in Chapel Hill North Carolina that there was no clinically meaningful evidence that any one of the drugs was better than the rest .
Instead they argued decisions on which drug to use should be based on factors such as cost and side effects .
In the current study Andrea Cipriani of the University of Verona in Italy and colleagues used a new technique called to make comparisons among the 12 drugs incorporating 117 randomized controlled trials including patients in all .
There has been little scientific evidence of the relative effectiveness of these drugs because most studies compare one against a handful of others or a placebo and are often funded by the maker of a particular drug which can bias the findings in its favor the researchers note .
They used two measurements to gauge a drug effectiveness and tolerability : the percentage of patients who showed at least a 50 percent improvement in their symptoms as measured by one of two scales or who scored much improved or very much improved after eight weeks of treatment or from six to twelve weeks if data were available and the percentage of patients who dropped out of the study before eight weeks for any reason .
The 12 drugs included bupropion citalopram duloxetine escitalopram fluoxetine fluvoxamine milnacipran mirtazapine paroxetine reboxetine sertraline and venlafaxine .
The authors did not use any funding from drug manufacturers to conduct their study .
This is an unbiased approach to combining the maximum possible data and comparing a large number of drugs rather than one versus a select handful so there much more confidence in these findings says Parikh .
Basically Parikh explains Cipriani and colleagues were able to make comparisons among drugs that had been studied by using their effectiveness as compared with Prozac the best studied of these drugs as a kind of common currency .
There are limitations to the indirect approach used nonetheless we think its the best available at present .
The analysis will need to be updated regularly to include all new upcoming evidence Cipriani and coauthor John Geddes director of the Centre for Mental Health at the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom said via .
The findings do mean that everyone should be put on Zoloft or Lexapro and they should be seen as suggesting that people who are on other drugs should go off them Cipriani and Geddes say .
While it good to have choices available since not everyone will benefit from a particular drug there also seem to be a lot of me too products out there that offer no additional benefit but cost more the authors add .
They suggest that future studies should compare new antidepressants with sertraline rather than to a placebo or a selection of other drugs .
Requiring new treatments to show either greater efficacy or acceptability than an existing standard therapy would serve as a disincentive to the development of agents that offer little to patients other than increased costs they write .
But according to Gartlehner who is now with the Danube University in Krems Austria the approach Cipriani et .
al used has serious downsides that they did not acknowledge .
Also he argues their use of odds ratios rather than relative risks led to overestimations of the differences among the various drugs .
Most of these differences are statistically significant but they probably not clinically relevant Gartlehner said .
It quite a stretch to say that clinically important differences exist between commonly prescribed antidepressants .
He and his colleagues did see differences among the drugs in profiles that could in fact be relevant to patients Gartlehner said and he argues that the finding that venlaxafine caused more nausea and vomiting while sertraline was associated with diarrhea as well as the fact that some drugs must be taken several times a day while others can be taken less often are important considerations along with cost .
But for Parikh the differences in effectiveness and tolerability that Cipriani identified can make a real difference to patients .
The magnitude of these differences is not huge in terms of effectiveness .
It genuine but it modest Parikh said .
You can say to a patient Do you want the strongest possible drug or do you want the one that least likely to give you side effects or do you want some balance ? .
He added It allows a dialogue to say What suits you ? .
And if you able to engage a patient in that dialogue there a much better chance of a patient sticking to that treatment because they been able to tailor that treatment to their individual preference .
