New iPhone not perfect but there a lot to like .
CNET Almost one year after the original Apple iPhone went on sale Apple CEO Steve Jobs has announced a 3G version of the device finally putting to rest months of rumors and speculation .
While some of the rumors panned out the new handset will offer full GPS other rumors like the addition of a 32GB model fizzled .
But even with the long list of basic features that Apple still is denying us hello multimedia messaging ? the addition of 3G support is a big win .
If data speeds hold up as Jobs demonstrated more on that later the new iPhone really will put the Internet in your pocket .
We also approve of the new price : $ 199 for the 8GB model and $ 299 for the 16GB version a pleasing price for all but the poor souls who shelled out nearly $ 600 a year ago .
The new iPhone will go on sale July 11 .
Design .
Though the iPhone 3G is thinner at the edges than its predecessor the phone measures a hair thicker inches versus inches in the gut .
The other measurements are the same except that it weighs just the slightest bit less ounces versus ounces .
Otherwise the iPhone 3G shows few cosmetic changes from the front same display size and resolution and the single Home button sits just below the screen .
We very pleased to see that Apple has done away with the irritating recessed headphone jack which now is flush so that you be able to use any mm headphones you like .
But turn over the iPhone 3G and you see more significant changes .
A black plastic skin replaces the current back .
The swap may cut the cost but we worry about its durability .
The 8GB model will come in black only while Apple promises the 16GB version in black and white .
The white model is a bit random we were expecting something in red but color is a personal choice .
The camera lens volume rocker charger port speaker microphone power button and display locking switch show no changes .
Our colleague got a with the new device and reports that it feels similar in the hand to the current model with the exception of the tapered edges .
3G .
With support for three 3G bands 850 1900 2100 and both UMTS and HSDPA networks the iPhone 3G is well positioned for using networks all around the world .
Considering that Apple is promising to bring the device to 70 countries it had better be .
During his WWDC keynote Jobs demonstrated Web download speeds between the two iPhones .
On the original model which runs on a G EDGE network a Web site loaded in 59 seconds while the same site loaded in 21 seconds on the new device impressive but we take it with a grain of salt for now .
tests particularly with a multitude of devices flooding the same network will be more telling .
GPS .
This is one feature that was on our original iPhone wish list .
While the current iPhone location services find your position via nearby cell phone towers and satellites the iPhone 3G uses Assisted GPS supplemented by satellites .
It also offers live tracking so you can monitor your progress as you drive or walk along .
We excited to see this feature as well as it fills in another gaping hole on the original handset .
You also find photo geotagging and applications with directions are in the works .
apps .
Speaking of which the iPhone 3G will indeed support the collection of apps available through the iPhone SDK no surprise here .
Apple promises to open an apps store in early July Apple did release an exact date ; we guessing by July 11 .
Gaming apps should feature prominently ; many will integrate with the phone accelerometer .
Enterprise support .
Worker bees will be pleased to know that the iPhone 3G will offer support for Microsoft Exchange Server .
That will bring push contacts and calendar remote wipe global contacts access and .
That another welcome change as it puts the iPhone in the hands of a whole new class of corporate users who now will be able to get their work on the iPhone .
Battery life .
Last year Jobs said that Apple had not included 3G in the first iPhone because it would have made too many compromises with the handset battery life .
But now it appears that Apple has solved that problem .
The iPhone 3G promises a solid 5 hours of 3G talk time 10 hours of 2G talk time 5 hours of 3G Internet time 6 hours of Internet time 7 hours of video playback 24 hours of audio playback and days standby time .
The audio and video times are unchanged from the original iPhone .
What else ? .
Since the latest iPhone will support the software additional new features will show up at launch and beyond including contacts search iWork document support the capability to view PowerPoint attachments bulk move and delete a scientific calculator in landscape mode parental controls and support for 16 languages .
You also be able to use a application for entering characters in Asian languages .
What missing ? .
Unfortunately we hoped for an even larger bundle of features in this round .
Apple still leaves multimedia messaging out of the mix along with voice dialing and video recording .
We still do understand why Apple ca include these basic features many found in even the cheapest and simplest cell phones .
We were also hoping for a landscape keyboard the capability to cut and paste Flash support for the Safari Web browser expanded memory and additional Bluetooth profiles .
Apple you left us hanging in a big way .
It also disappointing to hear that the dock is now sold separately for $ 49 but we suppose that helped cut the price .
No you do need the dock but it nice to have .
Even the power adapter and the SIM card removal tool that now come in the box wo make up for its loss .
Should you buy it ? .
If you an iPhone now the time .
The addition of 3G and GPS the affordable price tag and extra features from the iPhone software update make the iPhone 3G a worthy prospect .
Unlike the previous iPhone which we liked and recommended with reservations we much happier with what this new handset has to offer .
iPhone 3G is perfect but there a lot to like here and we approach the device with much anticipation .
We update this page with a full rated review once we get our hands on the hardware .
