Rome guidebook smackdown CNN.com .
-LRB- Budget Travel -RRB- -- Because no one knows a city as well as the locals do Budget Travel magazine asked a trio of insiders to give their opinions of three recent guidebooks about Rome .
BT top picks .
\* The star goes to the guidebook that the insider considers the most useful .
THE PANELISTS .
Marta Falconi : Born in Rome 27 years ago she 's now a reporter in the Associated Press bureau there .
Christopher P. Winner : The editor and publisher of The American magazine has lived in Rome since 1975 .
Sofia Celeste : Based in Rome since 2004 she has written for The Wall Street Journal and The Boston Globe .
THE BOOKS .
Rick Steves Rome 2008 -LRB- $ 18 -RRB- .
Marta Falconi : A friendly approach with first-person reports B & W photos and hand-drawn maps .
Restaurants get less play than attractions and nightlife coverage is virtually nonexistent .
Best for backpackers or families with little time in the city .
Christopher Winner : A long generally precise monologue .
But basic needs like lodging and food are n't separated from tourism and the religious coverage is nearly double that of entertainment and dining .
What the guide lacks in maps -- there are few -- it makes up for in clear writing .
Sofia Celeste : Written with the humor and street smarts of a local and full of insider info .
The restaurant guide will lead you to the best little-known spots as well as the nearest McDonald 's .
Anyone looking for the trendiest places however will want to hang out with someone other than Rick Steves .
The Rough Guide to Rome 2007 -LRB- $ 18 -RRB- .
Marta Falconi : The best take of the three on the Vatican with essential maps .
No ratings though so you ca n't tell at a glance which attractions you can ignore .
In general descriptions are only a few lines and some restaurant\/bar entries are outdated .
At least one closed long ago .
Christopher Winner : \* Time Out 's gloss meets Steves primitivism .
Listings are approachable and there are eight maps at the back of the book .
Best of all a Contexts section includes lovely excerpts about the city and astute book tips -- it 's just one more example of the book 's attention to detail .
Sofia Celeste : Seeking a tour that includes the setting of Tosca ? .
This is the guidebook for you .
It 's thick with historical and cultural background but lacks a simple breakdown of restaurants hotels and clubs .
Definitely better for more mature travelers .
Time Out Rome 2007 -LRB- $ 20 -RRB- .
Marta Falconi : \* A hip entertaining guide packed with the latest on bars restaurants and trends -- even most locals would find it useful .
Quality photos and smooth graphics make for better reading .
Nothing seems to be missing ; the book even has a small glossary of pizza toppings .
Christopher Winner : The attitude can be jarring : An essay on art is subtitled So many Virgins so little time ... Please .
The nightlife and entertainment sections are the best around making the book a better bible for the 20-something crowd than for anyone else .
Sofia Celeste : \* Goes beyond a directory of boutique hotels and day spas -LRB- though that 's here too -RRB- with insightful articles on topics such as Pope Benedict XVI .
Despite Time Out 's fairly youthful reputation bargain hunters should look elsewhere .
E-mail to a friend .
