Netanyahu : Iran top threat in Israeli history .
JERUSALEM CNN Benjamin Netanyahu the head of the conservative Likud Party has been chosen to form Israel next government Israeli President Shimon Peres announced Friday .
At a joint news conference with Peres Netanyahu said he accepted the task and he is willing to work with the moderate parties of Labor led by Ehud Barak and Kadima headed by Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni .
We have different approaches in different areas but we are all together in our desire to act for the good of the state Netanyahu said .
We will be able to find the common ground to lead the state toward security prosperity and peace .
He said Israeli leaders need to unite as the country faces great challenges particularly from Iran which he said is developing nuclear weapons and poses the biggest threat to Israel since the war of independence .
A report released this week found that Iran has enough uranium for a single nuclear weapon but the uranium has not been enriched to make it .
Iran consistently has denied the weapons allegations calling them baseless and said that data that indicated otherwise was fabricated .
To become Israel next prime minister Netanyahu must form a coalition within six weeks or the process will start all over .
The decision comes after Avigdor Lieberman head of the Yisrael Beytenu party said he would recommend Netanyahu for the post but only if he promises to form a coalition government .
In last week parliamentary elections no single party won the minimum 61 seats needed to form a government .
That means a government of two or more parties or coalition government is inevitable .
The ruling Kadima Party won the most seats in the Knesset Israel parliament .
But Kadima received just one more seat than Netanyahu Likud Party .
The strong showing of other parties including Yisrael Beytenu and the Orthodox Shas movement could give Netanyahu a better chance of forming a coalition government .
Speaking to fellow Likud members Monday Netanyahu expressed confidence that he has enough support to emerge as Israel next prime minister .
I plan to form a government as soon as possible with our natural partners the former Israeli prime minister said .
We have a government in our hands but we want a broader one .
He added that he will negotiate with other parties including Kadima to form a broad national unity government .
Livni took over as Kadima leader after Prime Minister Ehud Olmert stepped down from the post amid corruption investigations .
Livni failure to assemble a ruling coalition at that time triggered last week elections .
Netanyahu 59 is a former Israeli soldier who served in the elite commando unit Sayeret Matkal .
He was one of a dozen Israeli commandos who stormed a Belgian aircraft hijacked by Palestinian terrorists in 1972 and helped rescue 140 hostages .
After his stint as prime minister from 1996 to 1999 he served in the Cabinet of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon then Likud Party leader but resigned in 2005 saying he disagreed with Sharon plan to remove Israeli troops and settlements from Gaza .
Sharon left Likud and formed Kadima as a more centrist party .
Netanyahu has supported the expansion of Israeli settlements on the West Bank and has opposed making further territorial concessions in hope of ending the conflict .
He has been reminding the public that he warned that Palestinian militants in Gaza could launch rockets at Israeli cities such as Ashkelon and Ashdod which has happened and led to Israel recent military operation in Gaza .
His Likud Party had a strong showing in last week election more than doubling the number of seats it holds in the Knesset .
Netanhayu said that showing proves that voters have rejected Kadima leadership and he predicted parties will be able to form a majority .
With God help I shall head the coming government he said .
I am sure that I can manage to put together a good and stable government that will be able to deal with the security crisis and the economic crisis .
