Review : Hooray for Hellboy II .
CNN Will Smith Hancock was the first superhero with bad habits and a bad attitude .
Hellboy the protagonist of Hellboy II : The Golden Army has a bit of the devil in him : His skin is red ; he has two horns on his head a gargantuan club fist and a long slippery tail .
He also has a side : a fondness for Cuban cigars Mexican beer TV and candy .
He has a short fuse and he like a little appreciation for his efforts please .
He deserves it too .
This rank outsider is a billionaire like Bruce Wayne or Tony Stark .
He not even a scientist like Bruce Banner .
He more of a working stiff a slugger with a gruff manner and a stogie in the side of his mouth but he wants to bat for the right team .
According to Mike Mignola the character was inspired by his father a cabinetmaker .
Hellboy or Red to his friends has switched studios since his 2004 debut from Columbia to Universal .
Not that it shows .
Guillermo del Toro is still pulling the strings and the key creative personnel are all back including Ron Perlman in the title role Selma Blair as the pyrokinetic Liz now Hellboy Doug Jones as the piscine Abe Sapien the brains to Red brawn and behind the scenes cinematographer Guillermo Navarro and art whizzes Stephen Scott and Peter Francis .
Between them they conjure up one hell of a creature feature .
Hellboy II boasts a dazzling multitude of imaginary beings : the deceptively delicate tooth fairies so called because they eat bone with a fondness for teeth in particular ; the elfin king whose antlers grow out of his head to form a crown ; the plantlike forest god that collapses into a strangely beautiful floral mulch right under the Brooklyn Bridge ; the magnificent Angel of Death an old crone who unfurls her wings to reveal a sparkling set of eyes an avian variation on the creepiest creation in the acclaimed Pan Labyrinth del Toro last movie .
Then there the redoubtable Johann Kraus an officious but in many ways admirable German who only exists as a vapor trail except when he bottled up in an ingeniously modified but still splendidly archaic diving suit .
When a filmmaker can invest even a puff of smoke with so much chutzpah you know he on to something .
It wonderful to see del Toro let his imagination run rampant like this .
: Did you see Hellboy II ? .
Share your review .
The plot concerns an ancient race that determined to wage war on humanity but it secondary to del Toro amazing characters .
The Mexican director first Hollywood movies Mimic and Blade II were far less distinctive than his films : Cronos The Devil Backbone and Pan Labyrinth .
You could really call Hellboy II an advance on the latter Pan was nominated for six Oscars and won three but it obvious he relishes this material .
It pulpy and hammy and unashamedly lowbrow and del Toro has the confidence and power to make it his own .
The film feels very free loose and unusually for a picture improvisational .
An outsize personality such as Perlman is in his element here .
Even when the wisecracks fall short there are an awful lot of ass gags they are closer to the grubby subversive impulses of the comic books than the blockbuster adaptations Hollywood churns out .
It not for nothing that the central tension running through this movie is Red anarchic streak his sometimes irresponsible need to be his own man in the Bureau for Paranormal Research and Defense the like institution where he works and in his marriage .
Scratch the surface and this is a film about love and loyalty figuring out where your deepest bonds lie .
Highbrows may damn Hellboy II as a comic book movie though even they would have to grant that its wonderful idiosyncrasies indicate brilliance .
But it more than that .
Hellboy does so much growing up over the course of these 110 minutes we may have to call him Hellman from now on .
Let hope Universal stays the course and gives us that opportunity .
People as creative as del Toro and his gang need all the support we can give them .
Hellboy II : The Golden Army is rated and runs 110 minutes .
For Entertainment Weekly take click here .
